Gene Tsudik's Info PageGene 
 ("The older I is, the better I was") 
Tsudik  


 
 

 
Chancellor's Professor of Computer Science

formerly known as  "Lois and Peter Griffin Professor" and "The Simpson Family Professor" 
Quagmire Computer Science Department 
Pewterschmidt School of Information
and Computer Sciences 


University of Caliphoneya, Irvine 




  An urgent message to all humorless barbarians inhabiting this planet: 

   As a free human being, I reserve the right to disrespect, mock, parody, laugh at,
and disbelieve  any 
  and all of your deities, saints, prophets and idols. 

 

  Favorite Venues: 

   ACM Cloud Computing Security Workshop 
       (CCSW)  (Steering Committee Chair, 2015-2017)
   ACM Transactions on Information and System Security 
       (TISSEC)  (Editor-in-Chief, 2009-2015)
   ACM Conference on Wireless Network Security 
       (WiSEC)  (Steering Committee Chair, 2011-2015)
   ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security 
       (CCS)  (Steering Committee Member, 2007-2011)


  Venues and Publishers to avoid: 

    IARIA  
    ICST  
    HINDAWI 
    MDPI 
    EAI 
    CREATE-NET 
    WSEAS 



  Research Interests: 

   Privacy
   Computer & Network Security
   Applied Cryptography


  Pointers: 
 
 UCI Networked Systems (NetSys) Graduate Program 
 Secure Computing and Networking Center (SCONCE) 
  Security and Privacy Research Outfit (SPROUT) 
  Contact   Publications Google Scholar Publications DBLP PublicationsPatentsCurrent and Former StudentsAssorted FactsFavorite ExpressionsInvented WordsAre you a prospective graduate student looking for an advisor?  
      If so, here is an easy and painless way to see if you and I can work together. 
 Just click here and 
then here.Here's a presentation I gave several times over the last few years 
      with some platitudinal advice for graduating PhD students who are interested in academic
      research careers:  academia.pdf   


  Brief Bio: 
 
Gene Tsudik is a "Lois and Peter Griffin" Professor of Computer Science
at the University of California, Irvine (UCI).  He obtained his PhD in Computer
Science from USC in 1991. Before coming to UCI in 2000, he was at
IBM Zurich Research Laboratory  (1991-1996) and USC/ISI (1996-2000).
Over the years, his research interests included many topics in security and
applied cryptography. He currently serves as Director of Secure Computing
and Networking Center (SCONCE) at UCI. Gene Tsudik is a former Fulbright Scholar and a
fellow of ACM and IEEE.
From 2009 to 2015 he served as Editor-in-Chief of ACM Transactions on
Information and Systems Security (TISSEC). He suffers from a debilitating
academic condition known as "Research ADHD".