Girish's Home PageGirish Suryanarayana's ICS Page    Home     Research      Publications  
          Links     
      Contact     Curriculum Vitae   
	  
	   Page Last Updated - July 11th, 2007 
   		
	      
		   	
	
	
		  Welcome to Girish's home page
		   
		
		About me
		I am a Post-doctoral researcher in the Institute for Software Research at the University of California,
		    Irvine. I am working on  trust and reputation management in decentralized peer-to-peer architectures and applications  with  Professor Richard Taylor. I have a PhD and Masters degree in Information and Computer Science from UC Irvine and  completed my undergraduate studies in Electrical and Electronics Engineering from
		  the  Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, India.
		
		What's New?
		I am serving on the Technical Program Committee  for the International Conference on Software Engineering Advances (ICSEA 2006) to be held from Oct 29 - Nov 1, 2006, in Tahiti, French Polynesia. 
		 I recently also served as a Program Committee (PC) member for the Trust, Recommendations, Evidence and other Collaboration Know-how (TRECK) track of the 21st Annual ACM Symposium on Applied Computing (SAC) held in Dijon, France from April 23-27, 2006.
		
		Research Interests 
		 My research interests lie in the area of decentralized peer-to-peer (P2P) architectures and applications. Decentralized P2P architectures are characterized by the absence of a central authority or infrastructure that controls and coordinates the behavior of peers in the system. Instead peers have to rely upon information received from other peers and execute local decisions autonomously in order to achieve their individual goals.  In the absence of a single centralized authority that can help regulate and coordinate a decentralized system, each peer must take steps to safeguard itself against malicious attacks. This results in a host of challenges such as: how can these attacks be countered, what measures can be adopted to detect and neutralize these attacks, how can a peer be designed so as to facilitate the incorporation of these measures, etc. 
		 My current work has two primary focus: architecture-based approach for building trust-enabled decentralized systems, and  examining various types of reputation-based systems. You can read more about my research in the Research section.
			        