RiSCIT: The Center for Research in Sustainability, Collapse-Preparedness and Information TechnologyToggle navigation
						
						
						
					
					RiSCIT
				
				
					EventsProjectsPeople
					
							LUCI
						
							Social Code
						
							TechDec
						
							
						
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
						
					
				
			
			
				
					The Center for Research in Sustainability, Collapse-Preparedness & Information Technology
				
			
		

		
			
				
					
						Meeting Needs with Reduced Resources
						In his keynote address at a 2012 NSF-funded National Academies symposium, John Holdren, head of the US Office of Science and Technology Policy and chief science advisor to the nation, spoke at length about climate change, and described a need for both mitigation, the reduction of the magnitude of change, and adaptation, the mobilization of responses to change. Holdren advocated for the development of technology that focuses on "meeting human needs [and] wants at lower cost with reduced use of material resources [and] reduced environmental impact." The Center for Research on Sustainability, Collapse-Preparedness & Information Technology (RiSCIT) seeks to engage with this challenge, in part due to the potential for making civilizations more environmentally sustainable via IT interventions and in part as means of preparing for civilizational collapse. The goal of the RiSCIT center is to provide a central focus for research on the role of informatics and computing in supporting the transition to sustainability and addressing the potential to prepare for civilization-scale collapse.
					
				
			

			
				
					
						
						Research
						Our members engage in cutting edge research on topics relating to sustainability and collapse.
					
				
				
					
						
						Teaching
						We teach courses and supervise independent study students related to the center's research focuses.
					
				
				
					
						
						Living
						We compost, vermicompost, grow food, mine bitcoin, travel less, and generally try to "walk the walk".
					
				
			
		

		
			
				
					
						Events

						
							
								
									RiSCIT is pleased to announce the LIMITS
									2015 Public Discussion on Computing with
									Limits to be held at the UCI University Club
									Library in conjuction with the Newkirk
									Center for Science & Society on 3
									December, 2015.  Details here.
								
								
									
								
							
						
					
				
			
		

		
			
				
					
						Past Events

						
							
								
									RiSCIT hosted LIMITS 2015 at UCI on June
									15-16, 2015.  Details here.
								
								
									
								
							
						
						
							
								
									
								
								
									RiSCIT was pleased to host anthropologist, historian and author Joseph Tainter on February 14th, 2014 in DBH 6011.  Details here.
								
								
									
								
							
						
					
				
			
		

		
			Projects
			
			‹
			
				
          		
					
					
              			
							
								Plant Guild Composer
							
						
					
					
						
							
								Transition Towns
							
						
					
					
						
							
								SE 4 Sustainability
							
						
					
					
						
							
								Bitcoin
							
						
					
				
			
			›
		

		
			People
			
			‹
			
				
          		
					
					
						
							
            					
								Debra Richardson
							
						
					
					
              			
							
            					
								Bill Tomlinson
							
						
					
					
						
            				
								
								Don Patterson
							
						
					
					
						
            				
		    					
								Bonnie Nardi
							
						
					
					
						
            				
								
								Paul Dourish
							
						
					
					
						
            				
		    					
								Eli Bozorgzadeh
							
						
					
					
						
            				
		    					
								Geof Bowker
							
						
					
					
						
                			
								
								Eric Mjolsness
							
						
					
					
						
                			
								
								Nalini Venkatasubramanian
							
						
					
					
						
							
								
								Padhraic  Smyth
            				
						
					
					
						
                			
								
								Walt Scacchi
							
						
					
					
						
                			
								
								Katie Pine
							
						
					
				
			
			›