Data Science « Degrees « Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences « University of California Irvine?>
   
   
    

        
        
            

                DegreesOpportunitiesCareers

            
        
            
                
                
            
        
            

                Student LifeAdmissionsContact

            
        
        

        
        
            

                Degrees
Our broad selection of majors lets you be as specialized or general as you like            
            

            

                OverviewBusiness Information ManagementComputer Game ScienceComputer ScienceComputer Science & EngineeringData ScienceInformaticsSoftware EngineeringICS Undeclared Pre-MajorMinors                    
            
                    
            
     Data Science


   
   


   

                

As the only undergraduate Data Science degree in the UC system, the major will
prepare students for careers in data analysis by combining foundational 
statistical concepts with computational principles from computer science. UCI’s 
new Data Science major has a dual emphasis on the principles of both statistics 
and computer science, with foundational training in statistical and mathematical 
aspects of data analysis, as well as in the broad principles of computer science 
(including algorithms, data structures, data management and machine learning). 
The program teaches students how to utilize their knowledge of statistical and 
computing principles to analyze and solve real-world data analysis problems. The 
major is suitable for students interested in either a career in industry or who 
wish to pursue more specialized graduate study.













WHAT WILL YOU LEARN?


As a Data Science major, you have the unique opportunity to take an 
interdisciplinary course of study that includes classes from all three ICS 
departments: statistics, computer science and informatics. Classes you will have
the opportunity to take as a Data Science student include:


Programming in C/C++ as a Second Language (ICS) 
An introduction to the lexical, syntactic, semantic and pragmatic characteristics of the C/C++ languages, with an emphasis on object-oriented programming, using standard libraries and programming with manual garbage collection.


Machine Learning and Data-Mining (Computer Science) 
Learn the principles of machine learning and data mining applied to real-world data sets, with typical applications including spam filtering, object recognition and credit scoring. 


Statistical Methods for Data Analysis (Statistics) 
An exploration of statistical methods for analyzing data from surveys, experiments and cohort studies.


Information Visualization (Informatics) 
An introduction to interactive visual interfaces for large data sets, including a foundation on the principles of human visual perception and human computer interaction that inform their design.






POSSIBLE CAREERS

   With a degree in Data Science from UCI, you might get a job working in the web and technology industries for companies such as Google, Facebook, Twitter, Microsoft or Samsung.
      You might find a career in finance, working on Wall Street or for a banking or insurance company.
      You might delve into engineering, working for a company like Boeing.
      Or you might use your degree to get a job in the medical or public health field.
   








DEMAND FOR DATA SCIENCE


The demand for graduates with skills in both statistics and computer science currently outpaces supply. According to a 2011 McKinsey Global Institute study on big data, demand for individuals with data analysis skills will grow to almost 500,000 individuals by 2018, with a projected shortfall of about 200,000 individuals with deep analytical skills, as well as a shortage of 1.5 million managers and analysts to analyze big data and make decisions.










UCI DATA SCIENCE INITIATIVE


UC Irvine’s Data Science Initiative is a broad initiative with a focus on 
coordinating and linking the activities of researchers and students across 
campus involved in various aspects of data science. This initiative was founded
in 2014 by the Office of the Provost and Executive Vice Chancellor and is 
supported through the Office of Academic Initiatives. One of the goals of the 
Data Science Initiative is to support the formation of the new Data Science 
major. For more information, visit 
datascience.uci.edu













  















                
                    Share
                    |
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
                
            

            

        
        
        
        
            
            
                Language: 
                English |
                Chinese (Traditional) |
                Korean |
                Vietnamese            
            
        
            
            
                University of California, Irvine - Irvine, CA 92697 : 949-824-5011

                
                    Comments & Questions |
                    Privacy & Legal Notice |
                    Copyright Inquiries |
                    © 2016 UC Regents
                

            
            
            
            
                Site By Crisp