Computer Science & Engineering « Degrees « Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences « University of California Irvine?>
   
   
    

        
        
            

                DegreesOpportunitiesCareers

            
        
            
                
                
            
        
            

                Student LifeAdmissionsContact

            
        
        

        
        
            

                Degrees
Our broad selection of majors lets you be as specialized or general as you like            
            

            

                OverviewBusiness Information ManagementComputer Game ScienceComputer ScienceComputer Science & EngineeringData ScienceInformaticsSoftware EngineeringICS Undeclared Pre-MajorMinors                    
            
                    
            
     Computer Science & Engineering


   
   


                

Offered jointly with 
The Henry Samueli School of Engineering, 
the Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) major provides a unique educational opportunity for students interested in 
learning about both the hardware and software aspects of computers, and the application of computers to real-world 
problems. CSE includes methods of organizing and manipulating information (computer science), as 
well as the design of computers and their components (computer engineering). As such, CSE integrates 
interesting topics in computing devices, networks, software and systems engineering.

CSE graduates are well-positioned for career opportunities in both academia and industry. Our alumni are employed at 
leading companies or continue their studies toward M.S. or Ph.D. degrees at prestigious 
universities.

















IS COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING FOR ME?  


Embedded devices increasingly drive innovation in consumer goods and products, and often are used in large quantities 
to form sensor networks that monitor the weather, environment, or physical structures. Students interested in 
learning how such devices are designed and constructed are encouraged to explore the CSE major.

Graduates of the program will:
demonstrate broad knowledge of computer science and engineering;
   design, describe and use state-of-the-art hardware/software systems;
   maintain awareness of contemporary issues in computer science and engineering in a global and societal context, 
       and an understanding of the professional and ethical responsibilities of their profession;
   demonstrate effective oral and written communication.






For more information on CSE goals and objectives see
http://plaza.eng.uci.edu/degree-program/cse/mission.



Annual student enrollment and graduation data can be found at: 
http://www.oir.uci.edu/student-data.html. 
Please note that annual student enrollment and graduation data for CSE is the sum of the data under both Engineering and Information and Computer Science.













WHAT COURSES DO I TAKE?  


Current requirements for the CSE major can be found in the General Catalogue.












WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN CSE?  


Computer Science and Engineering majors are involved in building hardware infrastructure — computers, networks and embedded devices — as well as operating systems, compilers and networking software. The focus is on cooperation between hardware and software to yield the highest performance. 

Graduates of the CSE program at UCI can pursue careers that involve traffic management, flight control, earthquake monitoring, automotive control and building smart homes. Many students also go on to graduate school, continuing their studies, conducting research and earning advanced degrees in computer engineering, computer science, information science, management or law. 









  





   
      
      CSE students Niraj Desai, Patrick Murtha, Christopher Escobedo and Michael Sevilla with their senior design project, the Automated Labyrinth. 
   





                
                    Share
                    |
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
                
            

            

        
        
        
        
            
            
                Language: 
                English |
                Chinese (Traditional) |
                Korean |
                Vietnamese            
            
        
            
            
                University of California, Irvine - Irvine, CA 92697 : 949-824-5011

                
                    Comments & Questions |
                    Privacy & Legal Notice |
                    Copyright Inquiries |
                    © 2016 UC Regents
                

            
            
            
            
                Site By Crisp