Software Engineering (SE) « Degrees « Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences « University of California Irvine?>
   
   
    

        
        
            

                DegreesOpportunitiesCareers

            
        
            
                
                
            
        
            

                Student LifeAdmissionsContact

            
        
        

        
        
            

                Degrees
Our broad selection of majors lets you be as specialized or general as you like            
            

            

                OverviewBusiness Information ManagementComputer Game ScienceComputer ScienceComputer Science & EngineeringData ScienceInformaticsSoftware EngineeringICS Undeclared Pre-MajorMinors                    
            
                    
            
     Software Engineering (SE)


   
   


                

The Software Engineering major prepares students to be productive members of software engineering teams in a 
variety of application domains, with focus on the domains of major importance within each decade. It combines a 
solid foundation in computer science with knowledge of how to engineer modern software systems, and how to function 
within teams. 

Coursework in mathematics and statistics provide students the basis for rigorous thinking; coursework in the 
foundations of computer science provide students the basis for computational thinking; coursework in topics of 
software engineering prepares students for the production of software; project courses prepare students for the 
practice of software development.  The major emphasizes the design and implementation of large software systems.
 

















IS SOFTWARE ENGINEERING FOR ME?  


Students who major in Software Engineering will: 
Acquire a strong foundation in software engineering as well as a solid basis in computer science
   Have the ability to become a productive member of software engineering teams in a variety of application domains including, but not restricted to, Web and mobile applications
   Be inspired by technical knowledge and have an appreciation for life-long learning
   Be capable of placing software in the social context in which is it developed and create novel applications that have the potential to bring social change









WHAT COURSES DO I TAKE?  


Coursework involves mathematics and statistics, foundations of computer science, topics of software engineering and project courses. Current requirements for this major can be found in the General Catalogue.













WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN SE?  


A wide variety of careers and graduate programs are open to Software Engineering graduates. The Web and mobile applications industry is a multi-billion dollar industry, and job growth projections are the strongest for people with strong technical backgrounds. Many other application domains, including interactive entertainment, medical information systems, and training and education software have demand for similar skill sets and knowledge. Graduate school in either computer science or software engineering or a related IT field is also a possible career path.








  





             











Of interest



   
                
                            
                               Software Engineering Careers Continue to Boom 
                               According to IEEE publication Today's Engineer, software engineering is a hot industry, "with more demand
                               for talented professionals than ever." In fact, the U.S. Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics 
                               predicts a 30 percent growth rate for software engineering jobs through 2020 — much higher than the 14 
                               percent average growth rate for all other occupations. 
                            

                      
                                 








                 





                
                    Share
                    |
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
                
            

            

        
        
        
        
            
            
                Language: 
                English |
                Chinese (Traditional) |
                Korean |
                Vietnamese            
            
        
            
            
                University of California, Irvine - Irvine, CA 92697 : 949-824-5011

                
                    Comments & Questions |
                    Privacy & Legal Notice |
                    Copyright Inquiries |
                    © 2016 UC Regents
                

            
            
            
            
                Site By Crisp