Information and Computer Science Clubs – ICS Student CouncilEvents
Med AppJam 2015Reverse Career Fair (RCF)ICS Day 2016
About
Mission & VissionGet InvolvedExecutive OfficersExec Board PortalICS Major Rep. NominationICSSC Application
Contact UsICS ClubsICS Calendar                
                
                
            
        
    

                            
        
        
                
        
    
        
                            
                    HomeInformation and Computer Science Clubs                
                        
                                    Information and Computer Science Clubs
                            
                    
    
    
    
        

            
                        
                
            
            
            

                            
    
                
            
                
                Information and Computer Science ClubsDelian Petrov2015-10-15T01:47:33+00:00
                
                    Collaboration at It’s Finest
ICS Student Council is proud to collaborate with all of the UC Irvine’s Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Science clubs. Many of the clubs have different niches and target different audiences and we strive to collaborate on events as much as possible!
 CLUBS



Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)
As an affiliate to the national Association of Computing Machinery, we are committed to bringing you up-to-date on all of the awe inspiring sectors of computer science. We focus primarily on the professional development of our members through involvement in projects, competitions, and advanced workshops. We take advantage of our extensive resources on campus and through ACM to introduce you to topics that establish your unique and valuable presence in the IT world.




UCI AppDev
We are a newly founded club at UCI that explores how to apply what we learn in class to real world applications. We currently have Android, iOS, and Web projects for all skills levels. Check out our website on how to join! https://clubs.uci.edu/appdev/




Hack
Hack cultivates the hacker ethos and community: the love of learning, the satiation of curiosity, the pursuit of the unknown, and the wild pleasure of creating.  This club attends hackathons, and organizes the premiere hackathon of Orange County: HackUCI.




Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) is largest professional society in the world dedicated to advancing technological innovation and excellence for the benefit of humanity. IEEE and its members inspire a global community through IEEE’s highly cited publications, conferences, technology standards, and professional and educational activities. Despite its original charter as the Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the organization’s scope of interest has expanded into a range of diverse fields, that is is simply referred to by the letters I-E-E-E (pronounced “Eye-triple-E”).




The Design, Art, & Technology Makerspace (DATspace)
The Design, Art, & Technology Makerspace (DATspace) is basically “a place for geeks to hangout and make awesome things.” Founded by Vahan Hartooni and Nic La, DATspace is intended to lower the barrier for students to advance in their creative projects and to drive them to innovate.




Management Information Student Society (MAISS)
Established by a group of Business Information Management (BIM) students, Management Information Student Society (MAISS) is a student organization that recognizes the challenges BIM students face and strives to expose them to various resources that will equip them for the world after graduation. MAISS tailors to the interests of BIM students by providing career opportunities, an academic community, and a strong social network. Regardless of your year or major, MAISS will have something to offer you.




Video Game Development Club (VGDC)
The Video Game Development Club (VGDC) gives students the opportunity to break into the industry by challenging what is expected of college developers. We devote ourselves to building our members’ technical expertise, creating successful portfolios, and establishing a professional network with other game developers. The primary objective of the Game Development Club at UCI is to provide students with tangible products they can present in their portfolios and demo reels when applying for jobs post-graduation.




Women in Information and Computer Sciences (WICS)
Women in Information and Computer Sciences (WICS) is a social and professional non-profit organization at UCI established to help and encourage women to pursue a college degree and a successful career in the computer science field. We provide support for one another and have various activities such as: professional and technical workshops, project development, mock technical interviews, job and internship resources, networking events and opportunities, community outreach programs, social gatherings, and more. Although we emphasize our focus on women, everyone is welcome to join us!



COMMUNITIES
UCIrvine Google Student Ambassador (GSA)

UCIrvine Career Center and Career Center Club Affiliate Program

                
            

                            
                    Share on
                    FacebookTwitterLinkedInGoogle +EmailReddit                
            
            
        
    

        



    
                
				
					Search for:
					
					
				
			Upcoming Events
		
		
			

	
		Tue
		09
	

	
		
		
			The Portal Info Session
		

		
		
		
			February 9 @ 6:30 pm - 8:00 pm		

		
		

							DBH 6011
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
		

		
	 

		

		
	
		
		
			

	
		Wed
		10
	

	
		
		
			[MAISS] Protiviti Speaking Engagement
		

		
		
		
			February 10 @ 2:30 am - 4:30 am		

		
		

							SB 223
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
		

		
	 

		

		
	
		
		
			

	
		Wed
		10
	

	
		
		
			ICSSC AAA Meeting
		

		
		
		
			February 10 @ 3:30 pm - 4:30 pm		

		
		

							Mac Lab
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
		

		
	 

		

		
	
		
		
			

	
		Wed
		10
	

	
		
		
			ICSSC Corporate Outreach Meeting
		

		
		
		
			February 10 @ 4:00 pm - 5:00 pm		

		
		

							Mac Lab
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
		

		
	 

		

		
	
		
		
			

	
		Wed
		10
	

	
		
		
			[MAISS] Banh Mi Fundraiser
		

		
		
		
			February 10 @ 7:00 pm - 10:00 pm		

		
		

			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
		

		
	 

		

		
	
		
		
			

	
		Thu
		11
	

	
		
		
			Christine / IEEE Student Branch / Atmel Workshop
		

		
		
		
			February 11 @ 1:00 am - 3:00 am		

		
		

							DBH 3011
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
			
		

		
	 

		

		
	
	
		
			View More…		
	

    

    



        
                                                
                        
                
                                                                    
                                

Login
                            
                                                            
                
                            
            

            
            

                
                    

    
        
        
            
                                    
                        
                                                    
                    
                                © Copyright 2016. All Rights Reserved.            

            
                    
    
    
                
            

                
        
         
        
        
        
        
        
    

        
    
    




    Events
Med AppJam 2015Reverse Career Fair (RCF)ICS Day 2016
About
Mission & VissionGet InvolvedExecutive OfficersExec Board PortalICS Major Rep. NominationICSSC Application
Contact UsICS ClubsICS Calendar