Computational Vision | ICS | UC IrvineComputational Vision at UC Irvine  
  
  
    homeprojectspeoplepublicationsdatasetseventscoursescontactlinks
  

  
    Integrating Data Clustering and Visualization for the Analysis of 3D Gene Expression Data
    Oliver Rübel, Gunther Weber, Min-Yu Huang, E. Bethel, Mark Biggin, Charless Fowlkes, Cris Hendriks, Soile Keränen, Michael Eisen, David Knowles, Jitendra Malik, Hans Hagen, Bernd Hamann
    
      
       The recent development of methods for extracting precise measurements of
 spatial gene expression patterns from three-dimensional (3D) image data opens
 the way for new analyses of the complex gene regulatory networks controlling
 animal development. We present an integrated visualization and analysis
 framework that supports user-guided data clustering to aid exploration of
 these new complex datasets. The interplay of data visualization and
 clustering-based data classification leads to improved visualization and
 enables a more detailed analysis than previously possible.  We discuss (i)
 integration of data clustering and visualization into one framework; (ii)
 application of data clustering to 3D gene expression data; (iii) evaluation of
 the number of clusters k in the context of 3D gene expression clustering; and
 (iv) improvement of overall analysis quality via dedicated post-processing of
 clustering results based on visualization. We discuss the use of this
 framework to objectively define spatial pattern boundaries and temporal
 profiles of genes and to analyze how mRNA patterns are controlled by their
 regulatory transcription factors.


    
    
      Download: pdf
      Text Reference
Oliver Rübel, Gunther H. Weber, Min-Yu Huang, E. Wes Bethel, Mark Biggin, Charless C. Fowlkes, Cris L. Luengo Hendriks, Soile V. E. Keränen, Michael Eisen, David W. Knowles, Jitendra Malik, Hans Hagen, and Bernd Hamann.
Integrating data clustering and visualization for the analysis of 3d gene expression data.
IEEE Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, 7(1):64–79, 2010.
BibTeX Reference
@article{Rubel_TCBB_2010,
    author = {R{\"u}bel, Oliver and Weber, Gunther H. and Huang, Min-Yu and Bethel, E. Wes and Biggin, Mark and Fowlkes, Charless C. and Hendriks, Cris L. Luengo and Ker{\"a}nen, Soile V. E. and Eisen, Michael and Knowles, David W. and Malik, Jitendra and Hagen, Hans and Hamann, Bernd},
    title = "Integrating Data Clustering and Visualization for the Analysis of 3D Gene Expression Data",
    journal = "IEEE Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics",
    year = "2010",
    volume = "7(1)",
    pages = "64-79",
    tag = "biological_images"
}
    
  
  
    
      Computational Vision |
      School of Information and Computer Sciences |
      UC Irvine
    
    © 2007-2015 UC Irvine