untitledGrading: 
The total number of quizzes for the class will be 4. The quiz topics are search, logic, probabilistic reasoning and learning. The quizzes are each worth 15% of your grade. The 
number of homeworks for the class will be 4, divided between one coding problems  and three written assignments.   There is no cumulative final: instead the final will be a quiz on learning on the last day of class, as requested by Summer Session.
Regrades: There is no option to resubmit new homework for a new grade. If you believe a homework or quiz
is misgraded, ask for a regrade by resubmitting your paper with an explanation of why you 
believe the grade is incorrect. The entire paper will be regraded, so it is possible to lose credit. You are welcomed to submit homewowk early.

Homework are to be submitted  according to the TA's policy.  Late homework will be marked down 20% per day. Graded homework will be available one week after submission.  Homework must be typed. 
 Tentative Schedule 
 Week 1:  Introduction to AI: goals, history, evaluation. Read Chapter 1.
   Week 2:  State-Space Representation, Uninformed Search: DFS, BFS, IDS
   Week 3:  Informed Search: Hill-climbing, A*, Best-First, Iterative Improvement, 
  Genetic Algorithm, Simulated Annealing;  Constraint Satisfaction
   Week 4: Game Playing,  Propositional Logic, Quiz on Search
   Week 5: Prolog, First-Order Logic
   Week 6: Probabilistic Reasoning, Quiz on Logic
   Week 7: Bayesian Networks, Weka ML suite
   Week 8: Quiz on Probabilistic Reasoning
   Week 9: Nearest Neighbor, Decision Trees, 
   Week 10: Perceptron, Neural Nets


 Quiz Dates:  Quizzes are 30 minutes long.
   Monday July 19: Quiz on Search
   Monday August 2: Quiz on Logic
   Wednesday August 18: Quiz on Probabilistic reasoning
   Friday September 3: Quiz on Learning
  
   Homework Due Dates 
   July 16: Search Homework (code + output)
    July 30: Logic Homework  (problems)
    August 16: Probability Homework (problems)
    September 3: Learning Homework (problems)