Business Information Management « Degrees « Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences « University of California Irvine?>
   
   
    

        
        
            

                DegreesOpportunitiesCareers

            
        
            
                
                
            
        
            

                Student LifeAdmissionsContact

            
        
        

        
        
            

                Degrees
Our broad selection of majors lets you be as specialized or general as you like            
            

            

                OverviewBusiness Information ManagementComputer Game ScienceComputer ScienceComputer Science & EngineeringData ScienceInformaticsSoftware EngineeringICS Undeclared Pre-MajorMinors                    
            
                    
            
     Business Information Management


   
   


                


As the business environment becomes increasingly global and information-centric, the need has increased for graduates who understand and can use technology that gathers and provides information, who are able to distill and recognize patterns in that information, and who can apply those analyses to achieve business objectives.

Administered by the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences, Business Information Management (BIM) is a collaborative, interdisciplinary degree program between the Bren School and 
The Paul Merage School of Business.

BIM majors receive a firm grounding in mathematics, statistics, software engineering, databases, economics and business accounting, management science and information technology. Students interested in learning how to apply computational methods and tools for achieving strategic business analysis and decision-making goals are encouraged to explore this degree program.



















IS BUSINESS INFORMATION MANAGEMENT FOR ME?  



Graduates of the program will:
learn the fundamentals of information and computer science, including the rudiments of software design and construction with an emphasis on data management;
   grasp business fundamentals, covering all the functional areas in the business school;
   understand the background and context in which information and its analysis will be applied.









WHAT COURSES DO I TAKE?  



The curriculum is presented across three general academic areas:
Computing (computer science, informatics and software)
   Business Foundations (accounting, finance, marketing, strategy and operations)
   Analytical Methods (mathematics, statistics, economics, management science and decision analysis)



Current requirements for the BIM major can be found in the  General Catalogue .











WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN BIM?  


This degree program prepares students for a wide variety of careers and life experiences. Business Information Management majors can pursue careers in the for-profit and not-for-profit sectors or can proceed to graduate school in several disciplines, including information systems, computing, economics, business and law.


Potential careers for BIM majors include:
working at a consulting firm, auditing other companies’ technology policies for business efficiency.
    becoming a business risk analyst, identifying ways to reduce a client’s dependency on seasonal e-commerce traffic.
    serving as a program manager, leading a team in creating incentive and loyalty programs, so companies can get better business data. 


    

















  






                
                    Share
                    |
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
                
            

            

        
        
        
        
            
            
                Language: 
                English |
                Chinese (Traditional) |
                Korean |
                Vietnamese            
            
        
            
            
                University of California, Irvine - Irvine, CA 92697 : 949-824-5011

                
                    Comments & Questions |
                    Privacy & Legal Notice |
                    Copyright Inquiries |
                    © 2016 UC Regents
                

            
            
            
            
                Site By Crisp