Dmitri Ivanovich ArkhipovDmitri I. Arkhipov 
    4081 Bren Hall

    1(505)234-6275

    darkhipo AT uci DOT edu
    
    Advisor:
    Amelia Regan
    
    
    
    
    

     A collection of my work from different courses, notes, and other similar sources 
    My public github  

    Education/Distinctions

    University of
        California Irvine (2004 - 2009):
        B.S in Information and Computer Science
        (Cum Laude).
        Specializations: Computer Systems, Distributed
        Systems.
        Minor in
        Mathematics.
        Member Phi Beta Kappa.University of
        California Irvine (2010 - 2012):
        M.S in Computer Science
         
    

    

    Software
    Experience

    

    Programming
        Languages/Frameworks: Java, Scala, JDBC,
        JSP, C, C++, C#, SQL, x86
        assembler, Perl, Python, Matlab, VHDL, Java Script, HTML,
        CSS, MySQL, PostgreSQL. Apache Tomcat, Apache Hadoop, Apache Hive, Cloudera, Horton Works.

    Development
        Software: PostgeSQL,
        OpenGL, MS Visual Studio 2005, Model-Sim (VHDL), Eclipse
        IDE, PyDev, Scala IDE, Matlab, Vim, LaTex, Unix, Open/Libre Office.Software: MS Windows
        XP, Linux (Redhat/Ubuntu), MS Office.

    Language: English,
        Russian.
    

    

    

    Employment

    Graduate Student Researcher and Teacher Assistant @ UCI Bren School of C.S
        (09/2011 - Current)
        Working on several ongoing optimization and parallel execution themed papers. 
        Assisting in introductory computer programming, and discrete mathematics courses. 
        Current research projects include: 
         Novel concurrency and inter-thread/inter-agent communication and synchronization methods.  Agent based navigational programming approaches for heuristic scheduling optimization in a distributed environment.  Dynamic approaches to a new varient of the probabilistic traveling salesman problem.  Congestion and load adaptive first hop selection in SDN networks.  Novel methods for parallelization and batch selection in stochastic gradient descent. 
        
    Software Engineering Intern (Java/Scala/Python)@ Adaptive Medias Inc (04/2014 - 11/2014):
        I worked on three primary projects. Firstly, a heuristic optimization solution to an ad-ordering 
        problem written in Java. Secondly, I wrote a REST-ful web application in Python flask to accept web-domain urls and 
        classify the semantic content into Internet Advertising Bureau tier 1 categories. 
        Finally, I worked in Scala with the cloudera package of Hadoop to write Spark code to perform log aggregation. 

    Teacher Assistant @ UCI Bren School C.S
        (Java)(11/2010 - 1/2011):
        Discussed introductory to intermediate
        Java and Python concepts with students. Taught basic programming
        skills and principals to undergraduate students. Graded
        student Python and Java programs.

    Web Application
        Developer (Perl/JS) @ Intellisurvey Inc (04/2010 - 10/2010):
        Designed and implemented new features and
        enhancements to Intellisurvey software. Found and resolved
        software defects. Assisted in developing Intellisurvey
        infrastructure by creating tools to aid in development,
        testing, and systems administration. Provided technical
        support to internal software users and to clients who users
        licensing Intellisurvey software tools.
        

    Research Assistant @
        Institute of Transportation Studies at University of
        California Irvine (05/2009 - 09/2009):
        Installed, configured and populated a
        Postgress database with heterogeneous data sources.
        Developed a front end for the data using JSP. Linked the
        sources together into larger databases on the basis of
        common fields and meta information.

    Research Assistant @
        Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences
        (01/2009 - 05/2009):
        Optimization of MatLab algorithms for
        dynamic network flow optimization. Writing C functions
        called from the mex interface of Matlab, parsing work with
        python and re-implementing several algorithms from Matlab
        in Python. Developed a genetic algorithm
        solution.

    

    Publications

    
        
    
    
        
                
                D.I. Arkhipov, Wu, Di, and A.C. Regan (2015), A Simple Genetic Algorithm Parallelization 
                Toolkit (SGAPTk) for Transportation Planners and Logistics Managers. Proceedings of the 2015 meeting of the Transportation Research Board, 45(8) 765-778.
                
            
                
                Wu, D., D I. Arkhipov, Y. Zhang, C.H. Liu and A.C. Regan (2015), Online Wardriving by Compressive Sensing. Wu, D., D I. Arkhipov, Y. Zhang, C.H. Liu and A.C. Regan (2015), IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, in press.
                
            
    

    
        
                Chow,
                J.Y.J., A.C. Regan, F. Ranaiefar and D. Arkhipov
                (2011), A Network Option Portfolio Management
                Framework for Adaptive Transportation
                Planning. Transportation Research, Part A: Policy
                and Practice, 45(8)
                765-778.
                
            
                Tok,
                Y.C.A, M. Zhao, Chow, J.Y.J., S. G. Ritchie and D.
                Arkhipov (2011), An on-line data repository for
                statewide freight planning and
                analysis. Proceedings of the 2010 meeting of the
                Transportation Research Board.
            
    

    
        
                Chow,
                J.Y.J., A.C. Regan and D.I. Arkhipov (2010). Fast
                converging global heuristic for continuous network
                design problem using radial basis
                functions. Proceedings of the 2010 meeting
                of the Transportation Research Board.
                
            
                Chow,
                J.Y.J., A.C. Regan and D.I. Arkhipov (2010). Faster
                converging global heuristic for continuous network
                design problem using radial basis
                functions. Transportation Research Record: Journal
                of the Transportation Research
                Board, 2196,
                210-110.