qSpell - Spelling Correction of Web Search QueriesqSpell: Spelling Correction of Web Search Queries						
					
				
				
					
								
							
											
									Analysis of Web search query logs shows that roughly 10-15% of
									queries sent to search engines contain spelling errors. A query
									speller is crucial to search engines in improving Web search
									relevance, because it is hard for a search engine to retrieve relevant
									contents with misspelled keywords. In this project we explore
									leveraging Web-scale data for implementing a highly accurate and
									efficient spell checker. To implement a Web-scale spell checker that
									can handle diverse needs of Web users, we process massive amounts of
									data such as query logs and Web ngrams to build accurate language
									models. (PDF)
									
								
								University of California, Irvine
								School of Information and Computer Sciences
												
					
					
					
					
					
					
						
							News
							
								
										(06/2011) We won the 3rd Prize
										in Microsoft's speller challenge.
									
										(02/2011) We are participating 
										in Microsoft's speller challenge.
																								
							
						
					
					
					
						
							Datasets
							
								Name:JDB2011 
										[Download]Size:11,134 queriesLast update:June 20, 2011Description:
											We have randomly sampled 11,134 queries from
											the publicly available AOL and 2009 Million Query Track
											query sets and asked 8 human assessors to provide spelling
											corrections for these queries. Each query was judged by at
											least one human assessor and queries for which the human
											assessors had provided at least one suggestion which was
											different from the original query were reviewed by at least
											another human assessor. In order to assist the human assessors
											in providing the most plausible suggestions for each
											query, we had designed an interface that was showing Google
											and Bing search results for each query.
										Format:
											The queries of this data set are split into 6,000 queries that can be
											used for trainig and cross-fold validation. The final models should be
											evaluated on the three test splits (each 1711 queries) and average
											performance across these three splits should be reported.
											Each line has the following format:
											query <tab> suggestion1 <tab> suggestion2 <tab> ...
										Citation Policy:
											If you use this data set for a research purpose, please use the following
											citation:
											Y. Ganjisaffar et al., qSpell: Spelling Correction of Web Search Queries using Ranking Models and Iterative Correction, in Spelling Alteration for Web Search Workshop, Bellevue, WA, USA, July 2011.
											Bibtex:
											
											@inproceedings{Ganji:2011:Speller,
											    author = {Yasser Ganjisaffar and Andrea Zilio and Sara Javanmardi and Inci Cetindil
											and Manik Sikka and Sandeep Paul Katumalla and Narges Khatib-Astaneh and Chen Li and Cristina Lopes},
											    title = {{qSpell}: Spelling Correction of Web Search Queries using Ranking Models and Iterative Correction},
											    booktitle = {Spelling Alteration for Web Search Workshop},
											    month = {July},
											    year = {2011},
											    location = {Bellevue, WA, USA},
											}											
																								
							
						
					
					
					
						
							People
							
								Inci Cetindil, Phd StudentYasser Ganjisaffar, Phd CandidateSara Javanmardi, Phd CandidateSandeep Paul Katumalla, MS StudentNarges Khatib-Astaneh, Visitor StudentChen Li, FacultyManik Sikka, MS StudentAndrea Zilio, Visitor Student															
							
						
					
					
					
						
							Acknowledgments
							
								We would like to thank Amazon.com for a research grant that allowed us to use their MapReduce cluster.
								Our research has been also partially supported by NIH grant 1R21LM010143-01A1 and NSF grants, OCI-074806 and IIS-1030002.														
							
						
					
					
				Contact spellchecker AT ics.uci.edu
				
				
						© Copyright 2011 Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences, UC Irvine. All Rights Reserved.