VITA ProjectWhat is VITA program?  

VITA is a free, IRS-sponsored tax preparation service available to qualifying taxpayers.

Through the IRS's VITA program, taxpayers can take advantage of traditional face-to-face tax preparation with an IRS-certified volunteer or taxpayers can use the facilitated self-assistance (FSA) service where taxpayers prepare and file own tax return with access to an IRS-certified volunteer if taxpayers have questions.

For both services, the VITA Program generally offers this free tax help to people who make $60,000 or less and need assistance in preparing their own tax returns.  IRS-certified volunteers provide free basic income tax return preparation and can inform taxpayers about special tax credits for which they may qualify, such as Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit.

VITA sites are generally located at community and neighborhood centers, libraries, schools, shopping malls, and other convenient locations.  Most locations also offer free electronic filing.  
To find a nearby VITA location that offers self-assistance tax preparation or traditional face-to-face tax preparation, go to  here.
For general information about the VITA program, visit  here.
Locally, VITA program is run by   with many partners. Please refer to OC United Way page for more details  here
    Due to the lack of human resources, the development has been stopped since Summer 2015.  If you are an UCI student who are interested in working in this project, please contact me directly.  Team Members  

We are building an online screening and appointment booking as well as volunteer management system to support OC United Way in its VITA operations.
 Manager:  Khanh Nguyen  



 Past Members: 
 Tu Phu Hoang Le 
 Tien Quang Nguyen (Tim) 
 Vu Tran Nguyen 
 Xueyi Fan (Eddie) (Winter 2015)
 Mudassir Idriss Mayet (Winter 2015)
 Tsz Hang Ng (Kevin) (Winter 2015) 
 Pen Han Chang (Nick) (Winter 2015)
 Luan Gia Lam (Jason) (Winter 2015)
 Joshua Jang  (Fall 2013)
 Jordan Villanueva (Fall 2013)
 Wendy Wei (Summer 2013)