WICS - Women in Information and Computer Sciences - 10/11HOME | ABOUT WICS | NCWIT |OFFICERS | NEWS |  UPCOMING EVENTS  | PAST EVENTS |JOBS | PHOTOS | CONTACT | LINKS
  




























































  
  
    
      
 
  























































    You are being redirected to wics.ics.uci.edu
     We're now at wics.ics.uci.edu         

     Get involved with an incredibly active new WICS!
    














































  News



 October 12 2012 


WICS has moved to wics.ics.uci.edu  

Our new website is at wics.ics.uci.edu.  There we will have many more 
resources as well as 
our new collection of photographs from our renewed club.  In 2012-2013 
WICS will be hosting a whole new variety of events
and will be providing much support and many resources for the incoming 
class of women in ICS.  We are over 60 members strong
and we have added a new Events Planning committee to our board.  We are 
bringing programming workshops to girls in the Orange County area
with Scratch and PicoBoards.  We're planning a huge Networking Dinner, 
as well as an Orange County Conference for Women in 
Computing, including the community and state colleges in the area.  We 
look forward to a new and active year for WICS! 
Katherine Lo 
President, Women in Information and Computer Sciences (WICS)










 24 May 2012 


Friday, June 1 5:00-8:00pm 
WICS presents the 2012 ICS Banquet!  ICS Officers are cordially invited to a banquet honoring 
graduating members and initiating new ones!  
Mingle with fellow officers and ICS faculty while we provide you with 
food and entertainment. Please make sure to RSVP with your organization.  We're looking forward to seeing you
there!







 15 May 2012 


Wednesday, May 16 7:00pm - 8:00pm @ DBH 5011 
Northrop Grumman is a leading global security company providing 
innovative systems, products and solutions in aerospace, electronics, 
information systems, and technical services to government and commercial customers worldwide.


Check them out at the following website: 
www.northropgrumman.com


They are coming here! Bring your resume, network, and take the opportunity to learn and ask questions. Don't miss it!!!! 


And as always - FREE FOOD!






 May 6 2012 


WICS Mock Technical Interview 
   Thursday, May 10th 5:00pm - 8:00pm @ The Student Center 

WICS present Mock Technical Interview (MTI) Our MTI is a great opportunity 
for you to gain experience with interviewing without the pressure involved! 
WICS has invited companies such as HP and Masimo to interview YOU and give you feedback 
afterward. This is a great way for you to meet a recruiter, learn what they look for in 
job candidates, and get experience with technical interviews. 

Food will be provided. Business attire and resumes are encouraged. 

TO SIGN UP: Please fill out the following form: tinyurl.com/7rjuajm. 
Signups are on a FIRST COME FIRST SERVE basis, we will call you back after you have submitted 
the form to let you know what companies you may choose from and what time you will be doing your interview at.




4th Annual ICS Day 

Keep your calendars open for ICS Day, a day of fun and excitement in the ICS Plaza. 
Come out for games, shirts, competitions and a day out of the lab! For more information check out icsday.com



*WHAT: ICS Day 2012
*WHERE: Between ICS and Engineering Tower (ICS Plaza)
*WHEN: Thursday, May 17th @ 10am - 5pm 

Sign up today at  -- tinyurl.com/6oeh7nv






 19 April 2012 


Thursday, April 19, 7:00pm - 8:00pm @ DBH 6011 
Come to the "The Hidden Job Market" from Masimo. 
Professional speaker and Career Coach Michael Marinoff will reveal the real facts about today's Job Market 
and teach you how to be a standout professional candidate. Come join us! 

FREE FOOD for the first 25 people who attend the event!


RSVP on our Facebook event here!






 12 April 2012 


Thursday, April 12, 6:00pm - 8:00pm @ ICS 432 
Come to the First General Meeting for Spring Quarter! 
Welcome back anteaters! Hope everyone thoroughly enjoyed their
spring break and is ready for a brand new quarter.  This week, we have our first general meeting 
in the ICS building on Thursday. We will go over 
the plans for the rest of the quarter.

Drop by because it will be both a fun and informative meeting to start off spring quarter. Come out! :)


RSVP on our Facebook event here!



  






 21 February 2012 


Thursday, February 23 6:00pm - 8:00pm @ ICS 432 
Come enjoy XMEN with the women of WICS :D 
This is a great time to relax and get in touch with fellow WICS members and also meet new people. 
And of course XMEN is amazing, so come cOmE COME! 



Snacks will be provided.  RSVP on our Facebook event here!





 1 February 2012 



Thank you for attending the mentor/mentee Game Night!  We had a lot of fun with snacks and some Apples to Apples.  
Mentors and mentees, remember to keep in touch!






 19 January 2012 

 

Thanks to everybody who attended our general meeting tonight! We discussed what makes computer ccience
appealing or unappealing to women in all stages of their education, as well as the subcultures that influence the 
social atmosphere in this field (and its impact on women in computer science).
We explored the interaction between men and women in computer science, as well as the role 
that women play in industry as a whole.

We look forward to further discussions and we hope to meet more of you in future meetings!




 11 November 2011 

 Wednesday, November 16th in DBH 5011 from 6:00-7:30pm.
Southern California Edison is one of the largest electric utilities in the U.S,
and they are coming here to talk to us about what they do!
Learn more about them here.

If anything sparks your interest do attend. These people know what
they're doing, and this is a great opportunity for us to learn.  Please let us know if you're coming by RSVPing 
on the Facebook event here.





 28 October 2011 

           Monday, October 31st in DBH 5011 at 6pm. Attention all witches and
		wizards, ghouls and goblins, superheroes and villains, you get the idea
		– it’s Halloween! WICS is having a general meeting in DBH 5011 at 6pm,
		and everyone is welcome. During this meeting we will be talking about
		our goals as a club, and we encourage members to bring their own
		suggestions to the table. What do you want us to accomplish? This is a
		great opportunity to meet the board and get involved. The theme is
		Halloween so costumes are strongly encouraged. In fact, the best
		costume will win a prize. Snacks will be provided for everyone. Come
		for candy, connections, and the good kind of craziness. It’s an
		excellent time to take a break from those midterms.
		
		RSVP to the Facebook event here!
		
      
  

 30 April 2011 

           Tuesday, May 3rd in ICS 432 from 6-7pm.
             Interested in being a Mentee? Do you want to impart your knowledge as a Mentor? 
             Or have you just had a lot of trouble meeting up this quarter? In any case, come
             on out to WICS' Pictionary Event and show off your mad skills! :)
             
             Don't forget to check out the upcoming event to help bring more women in technology here!
      
  

 17 April 2011 

          
Tuesday, April 19th in ICS 432 from 6-7pm. Every Spring WICS hosts the
MOCK TECHNICAL INTERVIEWS. This year is no different. What is different
is that we are hosting an Infosession in preparation of them! These
interviews are a chance for you to practice before the real thing. The
representatives will give you advice on how you can improve. Plus, if
they like you, you could get a real interview! Tuesday, 6-7pm in ICS
432! 
      
  
  
 31 Jan 2011 

          
Thanks to all who came out to the Microsoft Event! It went well, and if
there are any comments or questions, please let us know! Lollicup
Fundraiser is next week! 9th of February on Ring Road! We are also
starting up a Mentorship Program. Are you interested? Check back soon!
      
  


   24 Jan 2011 

          
Join us for this panel discussion to hear from female Microsoft
professionals in the software and engineering field. We'll explore the
myriad opportunities available to women, and you'll have a chance to ask
any and all questions about life in what has often been a male-dominated
industry.

Dinner, Drinks & Prizes provided!

Feel free to bring your resumes!

      
  


 7 May 2009 

          WICS will be having its annual elections on May 7th. There are several
officer positions open, please contact us at wics.uci.president@gmail.com 
if you are interested in running for a position.This is a great opportunity to network, explore career options, and
enhance your resume!
      
  


 29 April 2009 
        
          Take a tour of the Google office located in Irvine.  Come on an
interactive Google campus tour with a Google employee and get the chance
to learn about career opportunities and what it is like working at Google.The event starts at 5pm. Rides will be provided-if you need a ride please contact us at
wics.uci.president@gmail.com
      
  
 27 April 2009 
        
          Come meet some of our female faculty and hear about exciting research opportunities available in the school of ICS.The event starts at 5pm. Location: ICS 432
      
  

   22 April 2009 
        
          Come find out about exciting internship opportunities at BAE Systems!The event is from 5:30pm to 7pm in ICS 432.
      
  


   15 April 2009 
      
        WICS and ACM will be selling Jamba Juice at Wayzgoose
		(Saturday, April 18th, 10am - 6pm)! Come show your
		support by visiting our booth. We will be located near the big performance
stage.
Check out our events page for more information
          
      
  





   26 February 2009 
    
      Come
take a mock technical interview with representatives from companies.
You will get the chance to interview with top companies and get
valuable feedback from the employers of:
				Acquity Group
				Avanade
				Deloitte AERS
				RaytheonTo
sign up, go to the career center and put down a $5 deposit fee. The
deposit will be returned to you on February 26th, 2009 once you have
attended your interview.Check out our events page for more information or join the event on Facebook
        
    
  



   12 February 2009 
  
    It's
the Thursday before Valentine's day and nothing says love like
Lollicup. Come and purchase delicious boba drinks from Lollicup for
only $2We will be selling boba drinks by HIB 100, so please stop by and support us.Check out our events page for more information. 
      
  
  




  Copyrighted to Women In Information and Computer Science 2006-2012