Computational Vision | ICS | UC IrvineComputational Vision at UC Irvine  
  
  
    homeprojectspeoplepublicationsdatasetseventscoursescontactlinks
  

  
    A Large-scale Benchmark Dataset for Event Recognition in Surveillance Video
    Sangmin Oh, Anthony Hoogs, Amitha Perera, Naresh Cuntoor, C.-C. Chen, Jong Lee, Saurajit Mukherjee, J. Aggarwal, Hyungtae Lee, Larry Davis, Eran Swears, Xioyang Wang, Qiang Ji, Kishore Reddy, Mubarak Shah, Carl Vondrick, Hamed Pirsiavash, Deva Ramanan, Jenny Yuen, Antonio Torralba, Bi Song, Anesco Fong, Amit Roy-Chowdhury, Mita Desai
    
      
      We introduce a new large-scale video dataset designed to assess the performance
of diverse visual event recognition algorithms with a focus on continuous
visual event recognition (CVER) in outdoor areas with wide coverage.  Previous
datasets for action recognition are unrealistic for real-world surveillance
because they consist of short clips showing one action by one individual.
Datasets have been developed for movies and sports, but, these actions and
scene conditions do not apply effectively to surveillance videos.  Our dataset
consists of many outdoor scenes with actions occurring naturally by non-actors
in continuously captured videos of the real world. The dataset includes large
numbers of instances for 23 event types distributed throughout 29 hours of
video. This data is accompanied by detailed annotations which include both
moving object tracks and event examples, which will provide solid basis for
large-scale evaluation. Additionally, we propose different types of evaluation
modes for visual recognition tasks and evaluation metrics along with our
preliminary experimental results. We believe that this dataset will stimulate
diverse aspects of computer vision research and help us to advance the CVER
tasks in the years ahead.


    
    
      Download: pdf
      Text Reference
Sangmin Oh, Anthony Hoogs, Amitha Perera, Naresh Cuntoor, C.-C. Chen, Jong Taek Lee, Saurajit Mukherjee, J. K. Aggarwal, Hyungtae Lee, Larry Davis, Eran Swears, Xioyang Wang, Qiang Ji, Kishore Reddy, Mubarak Shah, Carl Vondrick, Hamed Pirsiavash, Deva Ramanan, Jenny Yuen, Antonio Torralba, Bi Song, Anesco Fong, Amit Roy-Chowdhury, and Mita Desai.
A large-scale benchmark dataset for event recognition in surveillance video.
In CVPR. 2011.
BibTeX Reference
@InProceedings{Sangmin_CVPR_2011,
    author = "Oh, Sangmin and Hoogs, Anthony and Perera, Amitha and Cuntoor, Naresh and Chen, C.-C. and Lee, Jong Taek and Mukherjee, Saurajit and Aggarwal, J. K. and Lee, Hyungtae and Davis, Larry and Swears, Eran and Wang, Xioyang and Ji, Qiang and Reddy, Kishore and Shah, Mubarak and Vondrick, Carl and Pirsiavash, Hamed and Ramanan, Deva and Yuen, Jenny and Torralba, Antonio and Song, Bi and Fong, Anesco and Roy-Chowdhury, Amit and Desai, Mita",
    title = "A Large-scale Benchmark Dataset for Event Recognition in Surveillance Video",
    booktitle = "CVPR",
    year = "2011",
    tag = "people"
}
    
  
  
    
      Computational Vision |
      School of Information and Computer Sciences |
      UC Irvine
    
    © 2007-2015 UC Irvine