Hitesh Sajnani's homepageHitesh Sajnani 

        PhD Candidate       
         School of Information and Computer Science 
         University of California Irvine
         Irvine, CA 92697
	
          hsajnani[at]uci[dot]edu
	




	
 Recent News 
I am on the Program Committee for ICSME 2016 and Mining Software Repositories Challenge 2016. Both are excellent venues to show case your research. Please consider submitting. 
I successfully defended my Topic Proposal on "Large Scale Code Clone Detection" on September 9, 2016. I am honoured to have Prof. Cristina Lopes (chair), Prof. Andre van der Hoek and Prof. James Jones  
in my dissertation committee. 
 
  Brief Bio 

I am currently a PhD candidate in the School of Information and Computer Science,  University of California Irvine. My advisor is Prof. Cristina Lopes, Department of Informatics, University of California Irvine.
I was awarded Master of Science in Information and Computer Science at University of California, Irvine in 2012.
My disseration topic was Enhancing Component Identification Using Machine Learning. 
I was fortunate to have Prof. Cristina Lopes, Prof. Andre van der Hoek, Prof. James Jones, Prof. Nenad Medvidovic, and Prof. Alexander Ihler in my dissertation committee.  

Before joining University of California Irvine, I worked at Tata Research Development and Design Centre, India. 
I have had the privilege of doing internships from industrial research labs to product groups to startups.  
I spent my summer'11 at SRCH2, a startup specialized in improving user experiences in the domain of search; summer'12 in a product group (Interactive Entertainment Business) at Microsoft Silicon Valley; 
summer'13 in Human Interactions in Programming and Empirical Software Engineering groups at Microsoft Research in Redmond.  


Research Interests
My primary research interest has been in the area of Software Engineering with an emphasis on Software Evolution. I am interested in developing theoretical and practical techniques and tools for helping people to 
understand, and modify software systems. My research activities to achieve this goal so far span the spectrum from quantitative measures for software properties, to analysis of software changes, to code modularization, to 
architecture recovery. 
 
In order to ultimately overcome the essential difficulties, it has been recognized that both the processes and products of software development should be formalized and automated. I believe that AI/ML techniques can  
play an important role in this effort since the field of software engineering turns out to be one such fertile domain where many software development and maintenance tasks could be formulated as learning problems  
and ML techniques could be used to obtain solutions.


Publications
1. SourcererCC: Scaling Code Clone Detection to Big-Code 
Hitesh Sajnani, Vaibhav Saini, Jeffrey Svajlenko, Chanchal Roy, and Cristina Lopes. Submitted to ICSE 2016  
2. Can the Use of Types and Query Expansion Help Improve Large-Scale Code Search?  
Otavio Lemos, Adriano de Paula, Hitesh Sajnani and Cristina Lopes. In the proceedings of Source Code Analysis and Manipulation, Sept. 2015 
3. A Parallel and Efficient Approach to Large Scale Code Clone Detection 
Hitesh Sajnani, Vaibhav Saini, and Cristina Lopes. In proceedings of Journal of Software: Evolution and Process  
4. A Comparative Study of Bug Patterns in Java Cloned and Non-cloned Code  
Hitesh Sajnani, Vaibhav Saini, and Cristina Lopes. In the proceedings of Source Code Analysis and Manipulation, Sept. 2014 
5. Is Popularity a Measure of Quality? An Analysis of Maven Components
Hitesh Sajnani, Vaibhav Saini, Joel Ossher, and Cristina Lopes. In the proceedings of International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution, Victoria, Oct 2014 
6. Active Files as a Measure of Software Maintainability 
Lukas Schulte, Hitesh Sajnani, and Jacek Czerwonka. In the proceedings of International Conference on Software Engineering (SEIP track), Hyderabad, June 2014 
7. A Dataset for Maven Artifacts and Bug Patterns Found in Them 
Vaibhav Saini, Hitesh Sajnani, Joel Ossher, and Cristina Lopes. In the proceedings of conference on Mining Software Repositories, Hyderabad, May 2014
8. Probabilistic Component Identification
Hitesh Sajnani and Cristina Lopes. In the proceedings of India Software Engineering Conference, Chennai, India, Feb 2014
9. A Parallel and Efficient Approach to Large Scale Code Clone Detection
Hitesh Sajnani and Cristina Lopes. International Workshop on Software Clones IWSC-2013, Co-located with ICSE 2013 in San Francisco, May 2013
10. ASTRA: Bottom-up Construction of Structured Artifact Repositories
Joel Ossher, Hitesh Sajnani, and Cristina Lopes. In the proceedings of Working Conference on Reverse Engineering, WCRE-2012, Kingston, ON, October 2012
11. Automatic Software Architecture Recovery: A Machine Learning Approach
Hitesh Sajnani. In the Proceedings of International Conference on Program Comprehension, Passau, Germany, June 2012
12. Parallel Code Clone Detection Using MapReduce
Hitesh Sajnani, Joel Ossher, and Cristina Lopes.  In the Proceedings of International Conference on Program Comprehension, Passau, Germany, June 2012
13. Trendy Bugs: Topic Trends in the Android Bug Reports - PDFLee Martie, Vijay Krishna Palepu, Hitesh Sajnani, and Cristina Lopes. In the Proceedings of Mining Software Repositories, Zurich, Switzerland, June 2012
14. Multi-Label Classification of Short Text: A Casestudy on Wikipedia Barnstars - PDFHitesh Sajnani, Sarah Javanmardi, David McDonald, and Cristina Lopes. In the Proceedings of Workshop on Analyzing Microtext, AAAI-2011, San Francisco, CA, August 2011
15. Application Architecture Discovery: Towards Domain-driven, Easily Extensible Code Structure - (Best paper award in the industrial track, Most outstanding paper award at TCS Innovation Summit) - PDFHitesh Sajnani, Ravindra Naik, and Cristina Lopes. In the Proceedings of 18th Working Conference on Reverse Engineering, Limerick, Ireland, October 2011
16. Easing Software Evolution: A Change-data and Domain-driven Approach - PDFHitesh Sajnani, Ravindra Naik, and Cristina Lopes. India Software Engineering Conference, Kanpur, India, February 2012
17. Clone Detection in Open Source Java Projects: The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly - PDFJoel Ossher, Hitesh Sajnani, and Cristina Lopes. In the Proceedings of International Conference on Software Maintenance, Williamsburg, VA, September 2011
18. Using Change History of Software To Improve Software EvolvabilityRavindra Naik and Hitesh Sajnani. In the Proceedings of India Software Engineering Conferecene, Mysore, India, February 2010


Projects/Tools
1. Using Big Sky for Empirical Software Engineering Studies. My work at MSR in Summer 2014 (tool screen-shots)
2. Classifying Yelp reviews into relevant categories. Our entry in Yelp Dataset Challenge (project homepage)
3. SourcererCC: Scaling Code Clone Detection to Big-Code  (project homepage)


Services
Co-chair, Local arrangements, International Conference on Program Comprehension, ICPC'14 Co-located with ICSE'14, Hyderabad, India 
Member of Artifact Evaluation Committee, OOPSLA/SPLASH 2013 
Student Volunteer, Program Committee meeting held for OOPSLA/SPLASH 2013 in Irvine, CA, USA
Student Volunteer, OOPSLA/SPLASH 2011, Portland, Orgeon, USA 
Reviewer for ICSE 2012, Journal for Software: Evolution and Processes 


Teaching
I've had the opportunity to assist in teaching of the following courses at University of California, Irvine 
Informatics 133: User Interaction Software, Fall 2010    
Informatics 43: Introduction to Software Engineering, Winter 2011 
Informatics 191A: Senior Design Project, Spring 2011


Collaborators
University of California, Irvine: Prof. Cristina Lopes, Prof. Chen Li, Joel Ossher, Vaibhav Saini, Sarah Javanmardi, Vijay Krishna Palepu, Lee Martie 
Microsoft Research, Redmond: Dr. Rob DeLine, Dr. Michael Barnett, Jacek Czerwonka 
University of Washington, Seattle: Prof. David McDonald
University of Saskatchewan, Canada: Prof. Chanchal Roy, Jeffrey Svajlenko
Tata Research Design and Development Center, Pune, India:  Ravindra Naik