Computational Vision | ICS | UC IrvineComputational Vision at UC Irvine  
  
  
    homeprojectspeoplepublicationsdatasetseventscoursescontactlinks
  

  
    Learning Affinity Functions for Image Segmentation: Combining Patch-Based and Gradient-Based Approaches
    Charless Fowlkes, David Martin, Jitendra Malik
    
      
      This paper studies the problem of combining region and boundary cues for
natural image segmentation. We employ a large database of manually segmented
images in order to learn an optimal affinity function between pairs of pixels.
These pairwise affinities can then be used to cluster the pixels into visually
coherent groups. Region cues are computed as the similarity in brightness,
color, and texture between image patches. Boundary cues are incorporated by
looking for the presence of an "intervening contour", a large gradient along a
straight line connecting two pixels.

We first use the dataset of human segmentations to individually optimize
parameters of the patch and gradient features for brightness, color, and
texture cues. We then quantitatively measure the power of different feature
combinations by computing the precision and recall of classifiers trained
using those features. The mutual information between the output of the
classifiers and the same-segment indicator function provides an alternative
evaluation technique that yields identical conclusions.

As expected, the best classifier makes use of brightness, color, and
texture features, in both patch and gradient forms. We find that for
brightness, the gradient cue outperforms the patch similarity. In
contrast, using color patch similarity yields better results than using
color gradients. Texture is the most powerful of the three channels,
with both patches and gradients carrying significant independent
information. Interestingly, the proximity of the two pixels does not
add any information beyond that provided by the similarity cues. We
also find that the convexity assumptions made by the intervening
contour approach are supported by the ecological statistics of the
dataset.


    
    
      Download: pdf
      Text Reference
Charless Fowlkes, David Martin, and Jitendra Malik.
Learning affinity functions for image segmentation: Combining patch-based and gradient-based approaches.
In CVPR, II: 54–61. 2003.
BibTeX Reference
@inproceedings{FowlkesMM_CVPR_2003,
    AUTHOR = "Fowlkes, Charless and Martin, David and Malik, Jitendra",
    TITLE = "Learning Affinity Functions for Image Segmentation: Combining Patch-Based and Gradient-Based Approaches",
    BOOKTITLE = "CVPR",
    YEAR = "2003",
    PAGES = "II: 54-61",
    TAG = "grouping,ecological_statistics"
}
    
  
  
    
      Computational Vision |
      School of Information and Computer Sciences |
      UC Irvine
    
    © 2007-2015 UC Irvine