Padhraic SmythPadhraic Smyth 

Professor,

Department of Computer Science 
Director,
UCI Data Science Initiative
  University of California, Irvine 
  CA 92697-3435 


  
    [additional contact information] 





 Publications 

 
Links to papers



 News 

 (January 2015) We are currently

hiring faculty in AI/machine learning as well as more broadly in computer science.
 (Dec 2014) The new Data Science Initiative is now up and running - check out our 
 Web site
 for the latest news on what's happening.
 (July 2014) UCI kicked off a new 3-year Data Science Initiative on July 1st - looks like it will be interesting, watch this space!
 (July 2014) Presented an invited talk at AAAI in July on "30 years of Probability in AI and Machine Learning", which was fun to put together. And also attended a summer school in Heidelberg with psychologists interested in using machine learning and statistics to better understand dialog - a fun week.
 (June 2014) Congrats to various machine learning students who graduated with their PhDs recently including Jimmy Foulds from my group (headed to a postdoc at UCSC), Levi Boyles from Max Welling's group (headed to a postdoc at Oxford), and Qiang Liu from Alex Ihler's group (headed to a postdoc at MIT and then a faculty position at Dartmouth). 






 Biographical Information, etc 



Short biography 
and a rather long

full curriculum vitae 
 
Honors, joint faculty appointments, center affiliations, journal, conferences, etc


Information about the name "Padhraic"





 Smyth Research Group 

 
Lis of students and postdocs  in our research group (unfortunately this is almost always a bit well out of date!)
 
Information for students interested in joining our
 group .



 Centers, Seminars, Research Projects, and More 

UCI Data Science Initiative
Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems
  Weekly AI/Machine Learning Seminar Series 
 MURI project on analysis of network data








Teaching

CS 274A: Probabilistic Learning: Theory and Algorithms
  CS 277: Data Mining
  CS 175: Project in Artificial Intelligence.
   Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
      CS Undergraduate Course, CS 171 
  CS Graduate Course, CS 271.
  
  CS 177: Applications of Probability in Computer Science.