Collaboration Success WizardCreating successful geographically distributed collaborations.
    What is the Wizard?
    The Collaboration Success Wizard is an on-line diagnostic survey for geographically distributed collaborations. The survey probes factors that may strengthen or weaken the collaboration.  The Wizard provides both personal and project-level reports to help build successful and productive collaborative projects. 
    We are actively seeking participants!
    How does the Wizard work?
    Once a project is approved to participate, we send invitation e-mails to all the project members. The Wizard is an online survey that takes about 30 minutes. Each individual involved in the project should take the survey independently. The more project members who take the survey, the better the data!
    And yes – it’s free!
    What’s in it for participants?
    At the end of the survey each participant can see a personalized individual report that contains feedback based on their answers and our research. This report is available immediately, and summarizes both the strong points and the issues at risk for the target collaboration.
    If multiple members of the same project complete the Wizard, we are willing to provide a report to the group about the overall character of the project. This can be very helpful, especially for more complex projects that involve multiple disciplines and organizations. To protect individual privacy, this report does not identify specific people, but gives aggregate findings about the project as a whole.
    What’s in it for us?
    This is our research. We use the survey data to test and validate the theories we have developed. By providing the survey to a number of projects, we can investigate the nuances of different kinds, sizes, domains, and structures of collaborative work. We may publish anonymous, aggregated data from the surveys, but individual people and projects will not be identified. This research operates under the guidelines and with the permission of the UC Irvine Institutional Review Board. This work is funded by the National Science Foundation (Award #1025769, Gary Olson and Judith Olson, PIs).
    What is behind it?
    
      Olson, G.M., Zimmerman, A., & Bos, N. (2008) Scientific Collaboration on the Internet. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
      Table of Contents and more info
    
    The Wizard is based on over 20 years experience studying scientific collaborations. As part of the NSF-funded Science of Collaboratories project, we conducted a review of more than 200 distributed scientific collaborative projects to develop a set of factors that lead to successful collaboration. This work is reported in our recent book, Scientific Collaboration on the Internet.
    Who can participate?
    The Wizard is designed to assess geographically distributed projects. But what does this mean?
    Project size: We are interested in projects at any scale, from a small group of collaborators who are geographically dispersed to large, complex, multi-institutional ones.Project status: The Wizard comes in three versions, depending on the current status of the project: 
    Past: projects that have been completed, for a picture of how the project fared. Present: for current ongoing projects, to provide useful information about whether any mid-course corrections might be helpful. Future: useful in the planning phases of a project, and could even influence how a proposal for funding is written. 
    Project type: We welcome collaborative projects of all types and from any sector (academic, corporate, government) or across sectors.Project location: Distribution can range from different floors to around the world. We are interested in projects that span multiple institutions and that involve international participants. We welcome projects that are centered in any part of the world, though fluency in English will be a requirement, as that is the language of the Wizard. 
    We want to find examples across the entire spectrum on each of these dimensions, so don’t hesitate to contact us if you are interested.
    How to participate?
    An application form is available through the link below. It requires you to describe your collaboration in enough detail so we can determine if the Wizard is an appropriate instrument. If approved, we will send you information about how to access the Wizard.
    Apply Now!
    
    Questions? Comments?
    If you have any questions about the Wizard, please e-mail
      
      .
    This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. 1025769 and the U.S. Army Research Institute under contract number W91WAW-07-C-0060. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation or the U.S. Army Research Institute.
  
  Copyright ©
    2010 - 2016    ; The Collaboration Success Wizard team.  All rights reserved.