E komo mai - Welcome! | Hana OhanaSkip to main content
  
    

  

          
        
      
    
          

                              
              
                Hana Ohana
              
            
                  
                  
            Making Distance Matter Less          
        
       
    
      
    

    header fish
  
  
    
        
  
  
      
        
      
              
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  

          
        Main menuHomePeopleProjectsPublicationsHana Lab/ Behavior LabTalk to us       
    
    
   

  
  
  

    
    
    
            
                    
          E komo mai - Welcome!        
                          
                  
                          
    

    
  
    

      
  
  
    
  
    
  
  
    
      
  
      
  
  
    

        
      
    
    
  
  
    The Hana Ohana Research Group at the University of California, Irvine, studies a wide range of issues having to do with how people collaborate and what new technologies can do to help. We have a socio-technical perspective, looking at the relationship between the people involved and the tools they use. We focus on both discovering the underlying principles and guiding future practice to be more effective.
  

  
  

  

  
  

    

    
      
  
      
  
  
    
        
  
  
      
      
              
                      
              
                      
              
                      
              
                      
              
                      
              
                      
              
                      
              
                      
              
                      
              
                      
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
  

    
  
  
    
  
  
    
      
  
        News
    
  
  
    
        
  
  
      
            
          Larry Page was quoted in the book The Innovators as saying "The college course that made the most impression was taught by Judith Olson on human computer interaction."
    
          Dakuo Wang presented our paper, "DocuViz, Visualizing Collaborative Writing" at CHI in Korea in April.  A number of good contact and collaborations followed.
    
          Judy and Gary participated in the Science of Team Science conference in Bethesda, MD, by serving on two panels.  Judy reviewed her contribution to the NRC report and Gary served on the "Ask and Expert" panel to answer questions about technology.
    
          Gary Olson is writing the hisotry of the University of Michigan's School of Information in celebration of the University's 200th anniversary.
    
          Gary and Judy Olson just published the lead article in Interactions, an article titled, "How to Make Distance Work Work."
    
          Judy Olson serves on the National Research Council committee on "The Science of Team Science."  A report is due out this summer.
    
          Gary Olson is Chairing the 2015 iConference, to be held in Newport Beach, CA. Judy Olson is Co-Chair with Jack Carroll of the Sessions for Interaction and Engagement.  Julia Haines is Co-Chair of Student Volunteers.
    
          Judy Olson co-edited the book, Ways of Knowing in HCI, with Wendy Kellogg.  The book has chapters on the wide variety of methods now in common use in Human Computer Interaction, ranging from ethnography to log analysis.  
    
          Judy and Gary Olson just published a book, Working Together Apart, which compiles research on how people work long distance, the challenges and what to do to alleviate them.

      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
  

    

    
      
  
        Sponsors
    
  
  
    
        
  
  
      
        
      
              
  
      
              
  
      
              
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
  

    
  
  
    
  

  

  
  

  

  
      
     

    
   

  
  

    
          
          
    

    
  
    Copyrights @ 2015 Hana Ohana Group
UCI  ICS  Informatics