Computational Vision | ICS | UC IrvineComputational Vision at UC Irvine  
  
  
    homeprojectspeoplepublicationsdatasetseventscoursescontactlinks
  

  
    Exploiting Semantics for Scheduling Data Collection From Sensors in Real-Time to Maximimize Event Detection
    Ronen Vaisenberg, Sharad Mehrotra, Deva Ramanan
    
      
      A distributed camera network allows for many compelling applications such as large-scale tracking or event detection. In most practical systems, resources are constrained. Although one would like to probe every camera at every time instant and store every frame, this is simply not feasible. Constraints arise from network bandwidth restrictions, I/O and disk usage from writing images, and CPU usage needed to extract features from the images.

Assume that, due to resource constraints, only a subset of sensors can be probed at any given time unit. This paper examines the problem of selecting the “best” subset of sensors to probe under some user-specified objective - e.g., detecting as much motion as possible. With this objective, we would like to probe a camera when we expect motion, but would not like to waste resources on a non-active camera. The main idea behind our approach is the use of sensor semantics to guide the scheduling of resources. We learn a dynamic probabilistic model of motion correlations between cameras, and use the model to guide resource allocation for our sensor network.

Although previous work has leveraged probabilistic models for sensor-scheduling, our work is distinct in its focus on real-time building-monitoring using a camera network. We validate our approach on a sensor network of a dozen cameras spread throughout a university building, recording measurements of unscripted human activity over a two week period. We automatically learnt a semantic model of typical behaviors, and show that one can significantly improve efficiency of resource allocation by exploiting this model.

    
    
      Download: pdf
      Text Reference
Ronen Vaisenberg, Sharad Mehrotra, and Deva Ramanan.
Exploiting semantics for scheduling data collection from sensors in real-time to maximimize event detection.
In Multimedia and Computer Networks (MMCN). 2009.
BibTeX Reference
@inproceedings{VaisenbergMR_MMCN_2009,
    author = "Vaisenberg, Ronen and Mehrotra, Sharad and Ramanan, Deva",
    booktitle = "Multimedia and Computer Networks (MMCN)",
    title = "Exploiting Semantics for Scheduling Data Collection From Sensors in Real-Time to Maximimize Event Detection",
    year = "2009",
    tag = "people"
}
    
  
  
    
      Computational Vision |
      School of Information and Computer Sciences |
      UC Irvine
    
    © 2007-2015 UC Irvine