Christian Medeiros Adriano  



Christian M. Adriano


    


  Home  
  
  Blog  
   



  
PhD Student
Software Design and
Collaboration Lab

adrianoc [at] uci.edu 

Office: ICS-01 414

Mailing Address: 
5208 Bren Hall 
 Department of Informatics 
 University of California, Irvine 
 Irvine, CA 92697-3440  

CV    Linked-in    
Google
Scholar

Professional Service
SEWORLD Moderator April/2014 - Now
SEWORLD





   


 I am PhD student in Software engineering at the University of California Irvine
in the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Science.
My advisor is professor André van der Hoek.

My research focus is on enabling more people to contribute to software development. I am particularly 
curious about the sheer amount of knowledge and context people gather to accomplish complex tasks (e.g., refactoring or fixing an existing system). 
This poses several interesting challenges. For instance, how size of tasks affect performance? How tasks differ in terms of context and information needs? 
Which tasks can be performed in parallel and which ones demand explicit coordination? Are there compromises impacting quality, time, and cost? 
I am currently exploring these questions in the realm of software debugging. For that I am developing tools to help people divide work , perform
smaller tasks, and make sense of aggregated results.


As I study and do research, my interests usually span the topics of program comprehension, program analysis, software
architecture, and software design. Education is my cross-cutting interest, especially teaching through case studies and applying alternative approaches for evaluation.


 If you are an undergrad or master student interested in developing an individual project, please contact me! 
I am actively collaborating with a set of brilliant people.


 
 

Talking about that, I've been fortunate to work with a number of great people:

Current
Thomas La Toza - Development of CrowdCode

Danilo Cardoso - Development of a tool to crowdsource debugging questions

Past
Rafael Leano - Experimental Design for the Bug Exchange Project

Ivan L. M. Ricarte - My Master Thesis Advisor

Matthias R. Brust - Studies on Complex Systems and Digital Artifacts