Peter KammerPeter J. Kammer
   Ph.D., 
Information and Computer Science,
UC Irvine, June 2004
      Advisor: Professor
Richard N. Taylor 
E-Mail: pkammer (at-sign) ics.uci.edu
      
      Currently:
      Senior Software Engineer
      Google, Inc.
      1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy
      Mountain View, CA 94043
      Working on Google For Nonprofits.
      Previously on Public Data Explorer.
      
      
      
      
      

Full CV (PDF) 


Dissertation Title: 
A Distributed Architectural Approach to
Supporting Work Practice
Dissertation Abstract: 
This dissertation presents an architectural style to directly support
the formal and informal
relationships that underlie work. Rather than supporting work with the
formal definition of
work processes or by enhancing the capabilities of users in small
groups, as have many
previous approaches, the focus of this work is on the structure of
coordination within the
organization.
The work is guided by three specific goals. The first is to provide
scoped information
and communication spaces surrounding work activities occurring within
the system.
This is done at the level of task, user, group, and larger
organizational structures. The second
goal is to provide decentralized ownership and control of work product
and process,
allowing them to be defined and maintained within their context of
creation and use.
Finally, the style seeks to support work at varying levels of
definition, integrating structured
models of work with ad-hoc work activity.
The foundation of this style is a peer-to-peer architecture, each
peer providing an
independent addressable location associated with a particular user. The
peer's workspace
is subdivided into task spaces to provide locations to associate
resources for individual
tasks. These task spaces serve not just to organize the user's work but
also to provide independent
points of connection with larger organizational structures (and the
related tasks of
other users). Independent connectors, with their own addressable
identities, define the
relationships between task spaces and also provide the mechanism for
defining larger,
more complex, organizational relationships. The model of authority is a
compositional
one. Rather than authority to access and manage resources being
devolved from a central
server, users maintain control of their individual peers and enter into
trust relationships
with other peers or groups.
The style is demonstrated and validated using two mechanisms. First,
it is applied
to a range of coordination processes and organizational structures
taken from prior literature.
Second, a prototype implementation is described along with its
application to an
example work process.

Dissertation Committee: Professor Richard N. Taylor
(chair), Professor
Gloria Mark, Professor
David S. Rosenblum 

 Full Text of Dissertation (PDF, 1.5 meg) 
Publications and Presentations
 Refereed Journal 
      P. J. Kammer, G. A. Bolcer, R. N. Taylor, A. S.
Hitomi, M. Bergman, "Techniques for supporting dynamic and adaptive
workflow," Computer
Supported Cooperative Work, vol. 9, no. 3-4, 269-92, August 2000
      
      
       Refereed Conference 
      P. J. Kammer, R. N. Taylor, "An Architectural Style for Supporting Work Practice: Coping with the Complex Structure of Coordination Relationships
," 
2005 International Symposium on Collaborative Technologies and Systems, 218-227,
St. Louis, MO, May, 2005
      P. J. Kammer, "Supporting dynamic distributed
work processes with a component and event based approach," 22nd
International Conf. on Software Engineering (2000), 710-712,
Limerick, Ireland, June, 2000 (Doctoral Colloquium)
      P. J. Kammer, G. A. Bolcer, R. N. Taylor, and
Arthur S. Hitomi. "Supporting distributed workflow using HTTP".
In Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on the
Software Process, pages 83-94, Lisle, IL, June 1998.
      
      
       Weakly/Non-refereed  
      P. J. Kammer, "Distributed Groupware and Web
Services", CSCW 2002 Workshop: Network Services for Groupware,
New Orleans, LA, November, 2002.
      P. J. Kammer, "Building the Process:
Component Based Workflow Architectures in a Distributed World", CSCW
2000 Workshop: Beyond Workflow Management: Supporting Dynamic
Organizational Process, Philadelphia, PA, December, 2000.
      G. A. Bolcer, M. Gorlick, A. S. Hitomi, P. J.
Kammer, B. Morrow, P. Oreizy, R. N. Taylor. Peer-to-Peer
Architectures and the Magi Open-Source Infrastructure. Whitepaper, Endeavors Technology Inc.,
December, 2000.
      P. J. Kammer and D. W. McDonald. Putting
Words to Work: Integrating Conversation with Workflow Modeling.
Tech. Report, UCI-ICS-99-30, Information
and Computer Science, Univ. of California, Irvine, August 1, 1999. 
      P. J. Kammer, G. A. Bolcer, M. Bergman. "Adaptive
workflow on the world wide web," CSCW 1998 Workshop; Towards
Adaptive Workflow Systems, Seattle, WA, November 1998. 
      A. S. Hitomi, P. J. Kammer, G. A. Bolcer, R. N.
Taylor. "Distributed workflow using HTTP: An example using software
prerequirements." 1998 International Conf. on Software
Engineering, Kyoto, Japan, Apr. 1998 (Formal Demo).
      
      
       Other Presentations 
      Panelist: Impact of Peer-to-Peer Networking,
      9th International Conference on Network Protocols (ICNP 2001),
Riverside, CA, November 14, 2001
      "Endeavors Process Support System"
Presentation to LA Java Users Group, December 3rd, 1996.