Computational Vision | ICS | UC IrvineComputational Vision at UC Irvine  
  
  
    homeprojectspeoplepublicationsdatasetseventscoursescontactlinks
  

  
    
      Overview:
      
        
Both grouping and figure-ground are thought to be important in reducing the
visual complexity of a scene to that of processing a small number of cohesive,
non-accidental units. This has a clear meaning for computer vision, since
algorithms for recognizing particular objects in natural, cluttered scenes
cannot afford to test every possible subset of pixels to see if they match some
stored appearance model. Extracting coherent image structures in a feed-forward 
fashion is necessary to prune and guide this combinatorial search.

However, it is not obvious how to translate the phenomenological,
qualitative descriptions of cues found in the Gestalt and psychophysics
literature into concrete algorithms suitable for dealing with the dazzling
diversity present in real images. Furthermore, there is seldom an explanation
as to how multiple conflicting cues might be fused to yield a cohesive percept
or why a given cue is used by the visual system.

For example, the visual phenomenon of figure-ground is easily demonstrated
by Rubin's well known face-vase illusion. One has the introspective sense that
attending to particular convexities causes the percept to flip between two
faces in profile or the silhouette of a vase.  While psychologists have
quantified the tendency to see convex parts as figural, the basic question,
"Why does convexity affect what we see?" is left unanswered.

Our work on the ecological statistics of perceptual organization provides a
fresh outlook on these difficulties, by connecting the literature on human
vision to the statistics of the natural world. Although convex fragments of a
shape can occur on either the figure or the ground side, it is more common that
the figure is convex, an observation we have quantified by making empirical
measurements on a large collection of natural images that have been annotated
by human subjects. Similarly, we have shown that for horizontal contours,
the lower region is more often figure, consistent with commonly seeing the tops
of foreground objects laid out against a distant landscape or the sky. In a
parallel study of grouping cues, we have also made systematic measurements of
the relative information content of proximity, brightness, color and texture
similarity in predicting which pixels in an image belong to the same surface or
object.

These statistical regularities give an explanation as to why particular
cues are used by the visual system.  An organism that exploits convexity or
lower-region as a cue to make figure-ground inference would have an obvious
evolutionary advantage, more often correctly grasping nearby objects and
navigating through gaps rather than colliding with obstacles.

      
    
    
      Publications:
      
        

  
  Natural-scene statistics predict how the figure-ground cue of convexity affects human depth perceptionJohannes Burge, Charless Fowlkes, Martin BanksJounral of Neuroscience, 2010, 30(21), 7269-7280.[pdf]


  
  Learning Probabilistic Models for Contour Completion.Xiaofeng Ren, Charless Fowlkes, Jitendra MalikIJCV, 2008, 77, 47-63.[pdf]


  
  Local figure-ground cues are valid for natural imagesCharless Fowlkes, David Martin, Jitendra MalikJournal of Vision, 2007, 7, 8, 1--9.[pdf]


  
  Topographic Product Models Applied to Natural Scene StatisticsSimon Osindero, Max Welling, Geoffrey HintonNeural Comput., 2006, 18, 2, 381--414.[pdf]


  
  Figure/Ground Assignment in Natural ImagesXiaofeng Ren, Charless Fowlkes, Jitendra MalikECCV, 2006, II: 614-627.[pdf]


  
  Learning Affinity Functions for Image Segmentation: Combining Patch-Based and Gradient-Based ApproachesCharless Fowlkes, David Martin, Jitendra MalikCVPR, 2003, II: 54-61.[pdf]


  
  A Database of Human Segmented Natural Images and its Application to Evaluating Segmentation Algorithms and Measuring Ecological StatisticsDavid Martin, Charless Fowlkes, Doron Tal, Jitendra MalikICCV, 2001, II: 416-423.[pdf]


      
    
  
  
    
      Computational Vision |
      School of Information and Computer Sciences |
      UC Irvine
    
    © 2007-2015 UC Irvine