Ian G. Harris, Associate ProfessorIan G. Harris 
      Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science 
      University of California Irvine 
  
  







    Home    Publications    Courses    Projects    Contact  





   Short Bio 
  

  Ian G. Harris is currently Vice Chair of Undergraduate Education in
  the Computer Science Department at the University of California
  Irvine. He received his BS degree in Computer Science from
  Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1990. He received his MS
  and PhD degrees in Computer Science from the University of
  California San Diego in 1992 and 1997 respectively. He was a member
  of the faculty in the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department
  at the University of Massachusetts Amherst from 1997 until June
  2003.
  
  
   Research Areas 
   Functional Verification  Electronic Design Automation from Natural Language  Embedded Systems Security  Social Engineering Attack Detection 

   Research projects in Professor Harris' group is related to
  testing of hardware and software systems. His field of interest includes
  validation of hardware systems to ensure that the behavior of the
  system matches the intentions of the designer. He also investigates
  the application of testing for computer security. Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a prominent theme in Professor Harris' work in both security and verification. NLP techniques are used to extract information from hardware specifications, and NLP techniques are used to identify social engineering attacks in a dialog between two speakers.

  

   Service 
  
  
 Professor Harris serves on the program committees of several leading
 conferences in verification and security including IEEE Hardware Oriented
 Security and Trust (HOST), Haifa Verification Conference (HVC), and the IEEE Conference on Technologies
 for Homeland Security.
  

  
  Professor Harris is also co-organizer of the Workshop for Design Automation for Understanding of Hardware Designs (DUHDe) held in conjunction with IEEE/ACM Design Automation and Test in Europe 2016. The aim of the workshop is to consolidate the research community for problems related to design understanding across multiple levels of abstraction. Problems of interest include Automatic Feature Extraction, Reverse Engineering, and Synthesis/Verification from Natural Language.