Richard TaylorRichard Taylor 

  
    
	Chancellor's Professor EmeritusDirector of the Institute for Software Research (ISR)                 
            Professor of Information and Computer
              Sciences	Department of Informatics	 Research Area:  Software
            Engineering 	 Electronic Mail:  taylor 'at sign goes here' uci 'dot goes here' edu	 ISR Office:  ICS2-203  Bren Hall Office: 5216 ( Campus
            map & directions
        School maps
        and directions )	 Office Phone: (949) 824-6429	 Fax: (949) 824-1715	 Mailing Address:
            
    Information and Computer Sciences
    University of California, Irvine
    Irvine, California 92697-3440
            
             
            
        Google Scholar Profile 
      
      The Taylor/Medvidovic/Dashofy textbook/reference on software architecture
        is available!
        
Software Architecture: Foundations, Theory, and Practice at Wiley.com, our publisher's siteSoftware Architecture: Foundations, Theory, and Practice at Amazon.comSoftware Architecture: Foundations, Theory, and Practice at Barnes and Noble
    New: Visit the book's website for
      discussions and additional resources.



    
  
Last update: 
  November 27, 2015




  Biography | Institute for Software Research 
    | Design | Research Projects | 
    Graduate Students and Ph.D. Graduates | Classes 
  | More Important Stuff | Publications
  



 
 Biography 

Richard N. Taylor is a Professor Emeritus of Information
     and Computer Sciences at the University
     of  California at Irvine and a member of the Department of Informatics
     (of which he was chair from its founding in January of 2003 through June,
     2004). He received the Ph.D. degree in Computer
      Science from the University of Colorado at Boulder in 1980. His research
       interests are centered on design and software architectures, especially
      event-based and 
  peer-to-peer systems and the way they scale across organizational boundaries.
       Professor Taylor is the Director of the Institute
        for Software Research, which is dedicated to fostering innovative
        basic  and applied research in software and information technologies
        through partnerships 
  with industry and government. He has served as chairman of ACM's Special Interest
         Group on Software Engineering, SIGSOFT,
          chairman of the steering committee for the International
           Conference on Software Engineering, and was general chair of the
           1999 International  Joint Conference on Work Activities, Coordination,
           and Collaboration and the 2004
           International Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering.
           He was  the General Chair for the 2011
           International Conference on Software Engineering,  held in Honolulu, Hawaii, May 2011.
Taylor was a 1985 recipient of a Presidential
             Young Investigator Award and in 1998 was recognized as an ACM
               Fellow. In 2005 he was awarded the ACM
               SIGSOFT Distinguished Service Award. In May 2008 he received
               ICSE's "Most
               Influential Paper Award", along with 
               co-authors Peyman Oreizy and Nenad Medvidovic, for "Architecture-based
               runtime software evolution" from ICSE 1998. In May, 2009
               he was recognized with the 2009 ACM
               SIGSOFT Outstanding Research Award. In February 2010 he was
               designated a University of California, Irvine Chancellor's
               Professor.
 A PDF version of my April, 2015 resume. 



Software Engineering
 Events of Note
Keynote talk at ESEC/FSE 2009 (Amsterdam), for the 2009 ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding
    Research Award (slides 13.7Mb)
    
  2011 International Conference on Software Engineering: ICSE '11
    
    
    
    
  The IMPACT project: "an
    ongoing initiative whose goal is to determine the impact of software engineering
    research upon software engineering practice."   

 
 Institute for Software Research (ISR) 



Established in July 1999, the University of California's Institute for Software 
  Research (ISR) is dedicated to

 fostering innovative basic and applied research in software and information 
    technologies; working with established companies, startups, government agencies, and standards 
    bodies to develop and transition the technologies to widespread and practical 
    application; educating the next generation of software researchers and practitioners 
    in advanced software technologies; supporting the public service mission of the University of California in 
    developing the economic basis of the State of California. 


The Institute's activities are focused on: 

Direct support of research projects, including funding personnel Research support services (administrative services)Conference and seminar services Technology transition
The Institute extends beyond the boundaries of UC Irvine and includes faculty
from a variety of institutions. The Institute's web site details the faculty, staff, and students involved, the current projects, 
events, and news. 


 Research 

My research is focused on design — the issues, techniques, and agents 
  involved in creating and evolving software artifacts and processes. Specific 
  emphases include: 

software architecture: 
    means for designing, organizing, and describing distributed and decentralized 
    applications.architecture-based 
    software development environments: tools to support the conceptual approach, 
    ranging from design-time tools to implementation to run-time dynamic adaptation.

The foundational work on architectures has centered on means for describing
 architectures in various styles and development of new architectural styles
  (notably the "C2" components-and-connectors
   style and, with Roy Fielding, the REST
    style for Internet applications such as the WWW). Current work in this
    domain  is directed at developing, with Michael Gorlick and Justin Erenkrantz,
    the CREST style for computational exchange on the Internet.

The environment and tools work has emphases on environment architectures (see 
  the ArchStudio site 
  for details), an extensible software
   architecture description language and supporting toolkit (see the
    xADL web site for the details and the download), and architecture-driven
     dynamic adaptation of applications. Virtually all of this work utilizes
      event-based approaches. A variety of publications in this area can be found
      at http://www.isr.uci.edu/architecture/publications.html.
Sample Publications (See full list): 
Richard N. Taylor, Nenad Medvidovic, Kenneth M. Anderson, E. James Whitehead,
    Jr., Jason E. Robbins, Kari A. Nies, Peyman Oreizy, and Deborah L. Dubrow.
    A component and message-based architectural style for GUI software. IEEE
  Transactions on Software Engineering, 22, 6, pp. 390-406 (June, 1996.) Roy Fielding, E. James Whitehead, Jr., Kenneth Anderson, Peyman Oreizy,
      Gregory Bolcer, and Richard Taylor. Web-based Development of Complex
      Information Products. Communications of the ACM, 41,8, pp. 84-92. (August
      1998.)Nenad Medvidovic and Richard N. Taylor. A Classification and Comparison
      Framework for Software Architecture Description Languages. IEEE
    Transactions on Software Engineering, Vol. 26, No. 1, pp. 70-93 (January 2000).Peyman Oreizy, Michael M. Gorlick, Richard N. Taylor, Dennis M. Heimbigner,
    Gregory F. Johnson, Nenad Medvidovic, Alex Quilici, David S. Rosenblum,
    Alexander L. Wolf. An Architecture-Based Approach to Self-Adaptive Software.
    IEEE Intelligent Systems,14, 3, pp. 54–62 (May/June 1999).Kenneth M. Anderson, Richard N. Taylor, E. James Whitehead, Jr. Chimera:
    Hypermedia for Heterogeneous Environments. ACM Transactions
  on Office Information Systems, 18, 3, pp. 211-245 (July, 2000).Roy Fielding and Richard N. Taylor. Principled design of the Modern Web
      Architecture. ACM Transactions on Internet Technology,
      2, 2, pp. 115-150
      (May 2002). Eric M. Dashofy, André van der Hoek, Richard N. Taylor. An Infrastructure
    for the Rapid Development of XML-based Architecture Description Languages.
    Proceedings of the 2002 International Conference on Software Engineering
  (ICSE 2002), Orlando, May 22-24, 2002. Rohit Khare and Richard N. Taylor. “Extending the Representational
    State Transfer (REST) Architectural Style for Decentralized Systems.” Proceedings
    of the International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), May, 2004,
  Edinburgh, Scotland.Justin R. Erenkrantz, Michael Gorlick, Girish Suryanarayana, Richard N.
    Taylor. From representations to computations: the evolution of web architectures.
    Proceedings of the 6th joint meeting of the European Software Engineering
    Conference and the 14th ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on Foundations of Software
  Engineering (ESEC/FSE 07), September 03 - 07, 2007, Pages: 255 - 264.Georgas, J. C. and Taylor, R. N. 2008. Policy-based self-adaptive architectures:
    a feasibility study in the robotics domain. In Proceedings of the 2008 international
    Workshop on Software Engineering For Adaptive and Self-Managing Systems (Leipzig,
  Germany, May 12 - 13, 2008). SEAMS '08. ACM, New York, NY, 105-112

Design
(Not just software!)
The Proposal
     for a School of Design at the University of California, Irvine (dated
     November  2002; PDF format; 188 pages; 8.5M) recommends establishment of
     a research-based  school having an interdisciplinary approach to design
     and a comprehensive array  of degree programs at the bachelor's, master's,
     and doctoral levels.  The School of Design proposal was transmitted
  to the Irvine Division of the Academic Senate on January 13, 2003. The proposal
     is no longer under active consideration, but remains a vision document for
     the design research community.
Software Design 
Andre van der Hoek and I wrote an extended paper on the future
  of software design and architecture, as part of FOSE
  2007: Future of Software Engineering.

 Graduate Students and Ph.D. Graduates 


 Ph.D. Graduates 

I've had the privilege of supervising the following Ph.D. graduates. 

 1986  Stephen Clarke-Willson Studio Technical Director, ArenaNet 1988      Ray Klefstad      Lecturer, Electrical  Engineering and Computer Science, UC 
      Riverside     1989      Michal Young      Associate Professor, Computer Science, University
      of Oregon     1992     M. Gregory James     Lead Product Manager, American Express 1993      David Levine      Vice President of Research and Development, CombineNET (Formerly,
        Director, Center for Distributed Object Computing; Washington University,
        St. Louis)      1993     Dennis Troup      Emerging Technologies Consultants, Inc.     1994     Patrick Young     Lecturer,  Computer Science Department, 
      Stanford University     1996     Holly Hildreth    Software Safety Engineer at General Atomics Aeronautical Systems 1996     John Self    Senior Principal Engineer, BAE Systems,  San Diego     1997      Kenneth Mark Anderson      Associate Professor and Associate Chair, Computer Science Department, University of 	
      Colorado, Boulder     1998      Gregory Alan Bolcer     CTO, Bitvore Corporation 1998      Neno Medvidovic      
       Professor and Associate Chair, Computer Science Department, University of Southern
         California. Director Emeritus, Center for
    Systems and Software Engineering.    2000    Peyman Oreizy    Founder, Dynamic Variable LLC2000    E. James Whitehead    Professor and past Chair, Department of Computer Science, University
       of California, Santa Cruz    2000    Roy Thomas Fielding    Senior Principal Scientist at Adobe Systems
      Director at The Apache Software Foundation
    Co-founder and member at Apache HTTP Server Project2002    Robb Klashner Assistant Professor, New Jersey Institute of Technology    2003    Rohit Khare     Founder at Ångströ.com; now Product Manager, 
      Google, Inc.2004    Peter Kammer    Senior Software Engineer, Google, Inc. 2006Jie RenSenior Staff Software Engineer, Google, Inc.2007Girish SuryanarayanaSenior Research Scientist, Siemens Corporate Research & Technologies, India.    2007Eric DashofyPrincipal Director of Development, Enterprise Information Services, The
          Aerospace Corporation     2008John GeorgasAssociate Professor, Department of Computer Science, Northern
    Arizona University2009Hazel AsuncionAssociate Professor, Computing and Software Systems, University of Washington, Bothell2009Justin ErenkrantzHead of Compute Architecture, Bloomberg L.P.
    Former President, The Apache Software Foundation2010Art HitomiCTO and Co-Founder at Numecent 2011Scott HendricksonSoftware Engineer, Google, Inc.2012Yongjie ZhengAssistant Professor, University of Missouri—Kansas City2013Leyna ZimdarsLecturer, Santa Clara University2014Alegria BaqueroSoftware Engineer, ZocDoc
 Current Ph.D. Students
StudentAreaMichael Gorlick  (Advanced
    to Candidacy/Passed topic defense)Computational State Transfer (COAST): Secure and Adaptive Decentralized Services


 The Things that Really Matter 

 My Family!   
    This picture  is of my wife and myself halfway up the Aiguille du Midi, 
    near Chamonix.
    St. Andrew's Presbyterian  
    is where you'll find me on Sunday. Look for me in the    choir  singing tenor II. Here's a  
    photo of the St. Andrew's choirs,  taken in April of 2002.
   Music: anything baroque, sacred choral music, Rondo
     Veneziano. 
   The mezzotints of John Martin. See, for example,  
    Adam and Eve,The Morning Hymn . 
   Most everything French, but especially food and  
    St. Barts .  Cannes  is 
    wonderful, except during the cheesy film festival...
  



References or pointers on these pages to non-University entities do not represent endorsement
by the Regents of the University of California.

But you knew that already....

School of Information and Computer Sciences, 

University of California, Irvine CA 92697-3440


Copyright © 1996-2015