Computational Vision | ICS | UC IrvineComputational Vision at UC Irvine  
  
  
    homeprojectspeoplepublicationsdatasetseventscoursescontactlinks
  

  
    SEMARTCam Scheduler - Semantics Driven Real-Time Data Collection from Indoor Camera Networks to Maximize Event Detection
    Ronen Vaisenberg, Sharad Mehrotra, Deva Ramanan
    
      
      A distributed camera network allows for many
compelling applications such as large-scale tracking or
event detection. In most practical systems, resources are
constrained. Although one would like to probe every
camera at every time instant and store every frame, this is
simply not feasible. Constraints arise from network bandwidth
restrictions, I/O and disk usage from writing images,
and CPU usage needed to extract features from the images.
Assume that, due to resource constraints, only a subset of
sensors can be probed at any given time unit. This paper
examines the problem of selecting the ‘‘best’’ subset of
sensors to probe under some user-specified objective—e.g.,
detecting as much motion as possible. With this objective,
we would like to probe a camera when we expect motion,
but would not like to waste resources on a non-active
camera. The main idea behind our approach is the use of
sensor semantics to guide the scheduling of resources.
We learn a dynamic probabilistic model of motion correlations
between cameras, and use the model to guide
resource allocation for our sensor network. Although previous
work has leveraged probabilistic models for sensorscheduling,
our work is distinct in its focus on real-time
building-monitoring using a camera network. We validate
our approach on a sensor network of a dozen cameras
spread throughout a university building, recording measurements
of unscripted human activity over a two week
period. We automatically learnt a semantic model of
typical behaviors, and show that one can significantly
improve efficiency of resource allocation by exploiting this
model.

    
    
      Download: pdf
      Text Reference
Ronen Vaisenberg, Sharad Mehrotra, and Deva Ramanan.
Semartcam scheduler - semantics driven real-time data collection from indoor camera networks to maximize event detection.
In Journal of Real-Time Image Processing (JRTIP). 2010.
BibTeX Reference
@inproceedings{VaisenbergMR_JRTIP_2010,
    author = "Vaisenberg, Ronen and Mehrotra, Sharad and Ramanan, Deva",
    booktitle = "Journal of Real-Time Image Processing (JRTIP)",
    title = "SEMARTCam Scheduler - Semantics Driven Real-Time Data Collection from Indoor Camera Networks to Maximize Event Detection",
    year = "2010",
    tag = "people"
}
    
  
  
    
      Computational Vision |
      School of Information and Computer Sciences |
      UC Irvine
    
    © 2007-2015 UC Irvine