About | Yiran WangYiran Wang
						Social Computing + Youth and Digital Media + Informal Learning
					
					
						
							Site Navigation[Skip]
							
								HomePublicationsProjectsPersonal
							 
						 
					 
				 
				
				
					
						
							
							
								Sidebar[Skip]
								
									
										
											
												
												
											
										
									
								
								
									 Travels
									
										
											
												2015.10.13-2015.10.16Grace Hopper @Houston, TX2015.03.14-2015.03.18CSCW’15 @Vancouver, Canada(03.19-03.21 @Seattle)2014.4.26 - 2014.5.1Attending CHI’14 @Toronto, Canada
												
											
										
									
								
								
									 CONTACT
									
										
											
												Email: yiranw2(at)uci(dot)eduOffice: Department of Informatics5099 Donald Bren HallUniervsity of CaliforniaIrvine, CA, 92697
												
											
										
									
								
							 
							
						 
					 
					
						
						
							About
							
								
									
										
											
												
													
														
														
												
											I am a Ph.D candidate in the Department of Informatics, Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences, at University of California, Irvine. I am advised by Prof. Gloria Mark. Prior to joining in UC Irvine, I earned my B.S. in Computer Science from Peking University (Beijing University), China.
											I am fascinated
																																	by how people use digital technology, how technology advancement contributes to societal changes, and how the design and use of technology affect each other, grounded in a cultural and political context. With such a human-centered approach, my current work focuses on youth and technology.The way the college-aged Millennial generation engages with information and communication technologies (ICTs) has been an open question in recent years. Critics and the popular media, who can often influence general public opinion, tend to claim that digital media hinders the ability of “digital natives” to perform academically and socially. Yet, little research has investigated how and why these young people incorporate an assembly of digital media in their everyday lives. Towards addressing this issue, I study college students’ technology use in their natural environment, with a special focus on multitasking, social media use, informal learning, and well-being (e.g., stress, mood, and sleep debt). I draw on a set of diverse methods, from interviews, to computer and phone logging, survey, sensors, and observation. The evidence-based and ecological approach helps empirically ground discussions and sense-making of the relationship between youth and technology.
											
										
									
								 
								
								 
							 
						 
						
					 
				 
				
				
					
						© Yiran Wang 2015
						 [Back To Top]