AsterixDBOverviewDownloadDocumentationNewsPublicationsTalksTeamSponsorsContact

 
    
    	
        
        
        	Overview
            Welcome to the new home of the AsterixDB Big Data Management
            System (BDMS). The AsterixDB BDMS is the result of about 3.5 years
            of R&D involving researchers at UC Irvine, UC Riverside, and UC San
            Diego. The AsterixDB code base now consists of roughly 250K lines
            of Java code that has been co-developed at UC Irvine and UC
            Riverside.
            
            Initiated in 2009, the NSF-sponsored ASTERIX project has been
            developing new technologies for ingesting, storing, managing,
            indexing, querying, and analyzing vast quantities of
            semi-structured information. The project has been combining ideas
            from three distinct areas—semi-structured data, parallel databases,
            and data-intensive computing (a.k.a. today’s Big Data platforms)—in
            order to create a next-generation, open-source software platform
            that scales by running on large, shared-nothing commodity computing
            clusters.

            The ASTERIX effort has been targeting a wide range of
            semi-structured information, ranging from “data” use cases—where
            information is well-typed and highly regular—to “content” use
            cases—where data tends to be irregular, much of each datum may be
            textual, and the ultimate schema for the various data types
            involved may be hard to anticipate up front. The ASTERIX project
            has been addressing technical issues including highly scalable data
            storage and indexing, semi-structured query processing on very
            large clusters, and merging time-tested parallel database
            techniques with modern data-intensive computing techniques to
            support performant yet declarative solutions to the problem of
            storing and analyzing semi-structured information effectively.
            
            The first fruits of this labor have been captured in the
            AsterixDB system that is now being released in preliminary or
            “Beta” release form. We are hoping that the arrival of AsterixDB
            will mark the beginning of the “BDMS era”, and we hope that both
            the Big Data community and the database community will find the
            AsterixDB system to be interesting and useful for a much broader
            class of problems than can be addressed with any one of today’s
            current Big Data platforms and related technologies (e.g., Hadoop,
            Pig, Hive, HBase, MongoDB, and so on). One of our project mottos
            has been “one size fits a bunch”—at least that has been our
            aim.
	
        
    
          
    
        
    
        © asterixdb.ics.uci.edu 2015.Design by Free CSS Templates