Computer Game Science « Degrees « Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences « University of California Irvine?>
   
   
    

        
        
            

                DegreesOpportunitiesCareers

            
        
            
                
                
            
        
            

                Student LifeAdmissionsContact

            
        
        

        
        
            

                Degrees
Our broad selection of majors lets you be as specialized or general as you like            
            

            

                OverviewBusiness Information ManagementComputer Game ScienceComputer ScienceComputer Science & EngineeringData ScienceInformaticsSoftware EngineeringICS Undeclared Pre-MajorMinors                    
            
                    
            
     Computer Game Science


   
   


   

                

The Computer Game Science (CGS) major combines a solid foundation in computer 
science with a focus on designing, building, and understanding computer games
and other forms of interactive media. The fundamentals of information and 
computer science — along with coursework in mathematics, statistics, physics, 
and film and media studies — provide students with the concepts and tools to 
study a wide scope of computer game technologies. 

CGS emphasizes design, teamwork, and the understanding 
of computer games and related technologies and media in a social and cultural 
context. The term “computer game” includes games that run on cell phones, 
mobile devices, PCs, consoles, Macs, web pages and even inside automobiles. 
CGS majors design and create games for entertainment, and also for education, 
training and social change.

The study of computer games is an emerging field driven by advancing computer 
hardware and software technology, the widespread popularity of video games as 
an entertainment medium, and by the interest of artists, economists, 
educators, scientists and many others to use game technologies for 
communication, visualization, computation and learning.













IS COMPUTER GAME SCIENCE FOR ME?  


CGS is ideal for anyone interested in learning the technical components of
creating games — computer programming, graphics, network design, database
management, artificial intelligence and much more — and working in teams to
design and implement exciting new games. If you are primarily interested in
the art or management sides of creating games, the CGS major may not be the
best fit for you.

Students who major in Computer Game Science will:
acquire a solid foundation in computer science and software development;
      learn how to create interactive and human-centered computer game designs;
      employ an interdisciplinary approach to computer game design and development,
          drawing on coursework in modeling and design, graphics, software engineering,
          hardware architectures, AI, algorithms, distributed systems, human interfaces
          and aesthetics;
      be able to analyze and discuss computer game systems as communication,
          teaching and entertainment media that can be a force for education, social
          change and activism;
      graduate with an extensive portfolio of implemented games.
   






WHY STUDY AT UC IRVINE?  


Several factors contribute to the strength of UC Irvine’s Computer Game Science program, including:
   Overall excellence. Ranked 28th nationally by U.S.
          News and World Report, computer science education at UCI is broad,
          deep and cutting-edge.
      Location. Irvine and Orange County are home to a
          remarkable concentration of game development studios large and small,
          including industry giant Blizzard Entertainment. We consulted with
          these companies (many of which employ or were founded by UCI alumni)
          while planning the CGS major, and they look forward to offering
          internships and jobs to our students.
      Collaboration. We partner with nearby
          Laguna College of Art and Design,
          which offers a Game Art major. Their student artists work with our
          CGS students to develop innovative, visually engaging games.
   








WHAT COURSES DO I TAKE?  


The CGS major combines the fundamentals of computer science with about a dozen
game-focused courses. Current requirements for this major can be found in the General Catalogue.











WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN CGS?  


A wide variety of careers and graduate programs are open to Computer Game
Science graduates. The video game industry is comparable in size to the film
and music industries, and job growth projections are excellent for people with
strong technical backgrounds. Many other fields, including mobile software
development, interactive entertainment, and training and education software,
have demand for similar skill sets and knowledge. CGS graduates are well
trained in computer science, and can thus pursue graduate programs or any
career that involves designing, implementing, evaluating or interacting with
computer-based systems.













  





             
                 
                 Associate Professor Crista Lopes at the Computer Game Science
                    Open House demonstrates her 3D simulation of a podcar system. 
             











In the News



   
                
                            UCI students build games in a week 
                               The Orange County Register features Game Jam, a popular competition sponsored by the UCI Video Game Development Club.
                               Visit the Bren School YouTube channel to view a wrap-up of the spring 2011 contest. 
                               
                      
                            UC Irvine’s new computer games major gets its game on 
                               The OC Weekly publishes a six-page spread about the Bren School’s newest undergraduate major.
                      
                            UC Irvine takes video games to the next level 
                               The Los Angeles Times previews CGS before its launch in Fall 2010.
                               

                               

                               
                                  Meet the CGS mascot (mentioned in the LA Times article above), a character 
                                  from the game Colossal Crisis, developed by UCI undergraduates James Dalby, 
                                  Fritzie Mercado, Edward Fleischman and Quin Kennedy. The city is under attack 
                                  by Godzilla, and the professor assigns multiple clones of our hero to collect 
                                  equipment needed to fight back. Catch the demo video on 
                                  YouTube.
                               
                                 
                            













                
                    Share
                    |
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
                
            

            

        
        
        
        
            
            
                Language: 
                English |
                Chinese (Traditional) |
                Korean |
                Vietnamese            
            
        
            
            
                University of California, Irvine - Irvine, CA 92697 : 949-824-5011

                
                    Comments & Questions |
                    Privacy & Legal Notice |
                    Copyright Inquiries |
                    © 2016 UC Regents
                

            
            
            
            
                Site By Crisp