Computational Vision | ICS | UC IrvineComputational Vision at UC Irvine  
  
  
    homeprojectspeoplepublicationsdatasetseventscoursescontactlinks
  

  
    Using Contours to Detect and Localize Junctions in Natural Images
    Michael Maire, Pablo Arbelaez, Charless Fowlkes, Jitendra Malik
    
      
         Contours and junctions are important cues for perceptual organization and
   shape recognition. Detecting junctions locally has proved problematic
   because the image intensity surface is confusing in the neighborhood of a
   junction. Edge detectors also do not perform well near junctions. Current
   leading approaches to junction detection, such as the Harris operator, are
   based on 2D variation in the intensity signal. However, a drawback of this
   strategy is that it confuses textured regions with junctions. We believe
   that the right approach to junction detection should take advantage of the
   contours that are incident at a junction; contours themselves can be
   detected by processes that use more global approaches. In this paper, we
   develop a new high-performance contour detector using a combination of local
   and global cues. This contour detector provides the best performance to date
   (F=0.70) on the Berkeley Segmentation Dataset (BSDS) benchmark. From the
   resulting contours, we detect and localize candidate junctions, taking into
   account both contour salience and geometric configuration. We show that
   improvements in our contour model lead to better junctions. Our contour and
   junction detectors both provide state of the art performance.


    
    
      Download: pdf
      Text Reference
Michael Maire, Pablo Arbelaez, Charless C. Fowlkes, and Jitendra Malik.
Using contours to detect and localize junctions in natural images.
In CVPR. 2008.
BibTeX Reference
@inproceedings{MaireAFM_CVPR_2008,
    AUTHOR = "Maire, Michael and Arbelaez, Pablo and Fowlkes, Charless C. and Malik, Jitendra",
    TITLE = "Using Contours to Detect and Localize Junctions in Natural Images",
    BOOKTITLE = "CVPR",
    YEAR = "2008",
    TAG = "grouping"
}
    
  
  
    
      Computational Vision |
      School of Information and Computer Sciences |
      UC Irvine
    
    © 2007-2015 UC Irvine