Project SHERLOCK @ UCI:  Entity Resolution, Data Cleaning,  and Data Quality Project at UC Irvine.Main Page
                    Projects
                    News
                    People
                    Publications
                    Datasets
					Software
                    Internal
                
            
        
                 
       
                Overview
                
			      Welcome to the homepage of Sherlock@UCI: a UC Irvine project on Entity Resolution and Data Quality!
 				  	

                  
					
				  The significance of data quality research is motivated by the observation that 
					the effectiveness of data-driven technologies such as decision support tools,
                  data exploration, analysis, and scientific discovery tools is closely tied to the
                  quality of data on which such techniques are applied. It is well recognized
                  that the outcome of the analysis is only as good as the data on which
                  the analysis is performed. That is why today organizations spend a tangible
                  percent of their budgets on cleaning tasks such as removing duplicates,
                  correcting errors, filling missing values, to improve data quality prior
                  to pushing data through the analysis pipeline.
                  
                  Given the critical importance of the problem, many efforts, in both industry
                  and academia, have explored systematic approaches to addressing the cleaning
                  challenges. The work of our group focuses primarily on the entity resolution challenge
                  that arises because objects in the real world are referred to using references
                  or descriptions that are not always unique identifiers of the objects,
                  leading to ambiguity.
                  
                  The traditional approach for entity resolution uses features associated with
                  a reference (or a record) to find references that co-refer. In our project we are exploring
                  which other sources and types of information could be used, in addition to features, to better
                  disambiguate among references. This information could be present in that data being cleaned itself
                  or can be obtained from external data sources, including ontologies, encyclopedias, and the Web.
                  We are also looking into ways to guide and fine-tune the data cleaning process based
                  on the type of analysis that will be done on the data being cleaned for it to reach higher
                  disambiagution quality as well as efficiency.
				 	
				  
                  Past Work
                

                  As part of our project, in the past we have pioneered a novel entity resolution methodology which we refer to as
                  Relationship-Based Data Cleaning (RelDC). RelDC relies upon the observation that many real-world
                  datasets are relational in nature
                  and contain not only information about entities but also relationships among them,
                  knowledge of which can be used to disambiguate among representations more effectively.
                  RelDC is a principled, domain-independent framework that
                  exploits the entity-relationship graph of the dataset, and specifically
                  relationships, for high-quality entity resolution that is self-tuning and requires minimal
                  intervention by analysts.

                

				 Keywords
				
                  Entity Resolution, Data Cleaning, Data Cleansing, Information Quality, Data Quality.
                

                Acknowledgement
                
		This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. 1118114. Any opinions, 
		findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and 
		do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation.
		

                




 © 2013 SHERLOCK @ UCI. All Rights Reserved.