Computational Vision | ICS | UC IrvineComputational Vision at UC Irvine  
  
  
    homeprojectspeoplepublicationsdatasetseventscoursescontactlinks
  

  
    Feed-forward hierarchical model of the ventral visual stream applied to functional brain image classification
    David Keator, James Fallon, Anita Lakatos, Charless Fowlkes, Steven Potkin, Alexander Ihler
    
      
      Functional brain imaging is a common tool in monitoring the progression of neurodegenerative
and neurological disorders. Identifying functional brain imaging derived features that can
accurately detect neurological disease is of primary importance to the medical community. Research
in computer vision techniques to identify objects in photographs have reported high accuracies in
that domain, but their direct applicability to identifying disease in functional imaging is still
under investigation in the medical community. In particular, Serre et al. ([2005]: In: IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR-05). pp 994–1000) introduced a
biophysically inspired filtering method emulating visual processing in striate cortex which they
applied to perform object recognition in photographs. In this work, the model described by Serre
et al. [2005] is extended to three-dimensional volumetric images to perform signal detection in
functional brain imaging (PET, SPECT). The filter outputs are used to train both neural network
and logistic regression classifiers and tested on two distinct datasets: ADNI Alzheimer’s disease
2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) PET and National Football League players Tc99m HMPAO SPECT. The filtering
pipeline is analyzed to identify which steps are most important for classification accuracy. Our
results compare favorably with other published classification results and outperform those of a
blinded expert human rater, suggesting the utility of this approach.

    
    
      Download: pdf
      Text Reference
David B Keator, James H Fallon, Anita Lakatos, Charless Fowlkes, Steven G Potkin, and Alexander Ihler.
Feed-forward hierarchical model of the ventral visual stream applied to functional brain image classification.
Human Brain Mapping, 2012.
BibTeX Reference
@article{KeatorFLFPI_HBM_2012,
    author = "Keator, David B and Fallon, James H and Lakatos, Anita and Fowlkes, Charless and Potkin, Steven G and Ihler, Alexander",
    title = "Feed-forward hierarchical model of the ventral visual stream applied to functional brain image classification",
    journal = "Human Brain Mapping",
    year = "2012",
    publisher = "Wiley Online Library"
}
    
  
  
    
      Computational Vision |
      School of Information and Computer Sciences |
      UC Irvine
    
    © 2007-2015 UC Irvine